
<ICLEUSMRQ0001.1>
The source of human existence has been questioned since the beginning of
time. Most people have pondered at some point in their lives this and
other related questions, such as what caused the universe to come into
existence? The more attempts to answer these questions, the more ways in
which it is debated. Since many of the world's population are students
who are in the prime of their education, and schools are labelled the
genuine places of inquiry, isn't the classroom the most effective place
to discuss the different theories on the origin of human life? This
seems to be the latest debate about the creation/evolution controversy.
Should such a controversial debate be discussed, if not taught, in the
classroom? Some argue yes, saying <*>. The opposing argument lies in the
hands of evolutionists, who believe that creationism is religion and it
does not belong in a science class. Although creationists are the
opposition to evolutionists, their own argument is in favor of the two
model approach, where as evolutionists strongly disagree with any
addition of other theories of the origin of life. Those who support a
twomodel approach, or teaching both evolution and creation in the
classroom, present a strong, effective argument, with each aspect of
reasoning proving the opposition to be increasingly weak in presenting
their argument.

Those advocating a two model approach use different methods of reasoning
to support the argument. The first is that evolution and creation should
definitely be taught, but the most effective method would be both
theories presented in a nondogmatic, yet forceful and aggressive, manner
to make students aware of how important the issue is. But there is a
difference between a forceful manner and the information and ideas being
forced on a student. If ideas are forced, the student either reacts
against it or accepts it without full understanding. When both theories
are presented, if they have strong foundations, that is most effective
because the student will learn not only what the theories are, but also
why.

When information is presented, all evidence should be presented for both
theories. Although many concepts in science can be supported by a
tremendous amount of evidence and are accepted by many people, they are
still ideas and it is possible they could be wrong. The fact that
evolution appears to be a little more widely accepted than creation
doesn't justify excluding creation from the classroom. <*>

The second argument for those advocating the twomodel approach is the
idea of questioning even the most firmly held idea. <*>  For example,
Sir Isaac Newton discovered laws of motion and the inability of matter
and energy to be created and destroyed. They were "solid, irrefutable
laws of the universe" until Albert Einstein discovered the infamous
equation of E=MC², which shows that matter and energy can be
transformed. Einstein studied and tested a very respectable,
scientifically prestigious man's theory. If students study various myths
and theories in the classroom, it will broaden the student's perspective
of other world views, as it did with Einstein, and she/he will also be
able to be more tolerant of them. In this case, Einstein questioned
Newton's laws and theories and ended up creating a new discovery in the
laws of physics. At the time, Newton's principles were scientifically
set in stone, but, generally assumed, the only reason for Einstein's new
discoveries and theories is because he questioned such a firmly held
idea and such a scientifically respected man like Newton. A good portion
of this argument is that the process of questioning, testing, or just
studying such accepted theories "fires the imagination, leading to
important discoveries". This encourages students to question widely
accepted beliefs like evolution and simultaneously study creation
because it elicits thought and encourages research until the goal,
confidence in the answer, is attained.

In a large number of various sources depicting the twomodel approach,
another example of effective reasoning includes wellrespected
authorities' powerful responses to questions about the twomodel
approach. The creationist position is summarized well in one anonymous
quote, <*>. Robert Carleton, executive secretary of the National Science
Teacher's Association, also responds to why creation should be included
with the teaching of evolution, saying, <*>. But the most important
quote the advocates use is from Darwin himself,<*>.


This quote is a major advantage to their argument since Charles Darwin
is the founder of the theory of evolution, because of this, they are
much more effective in getting through to someone of the opposing
argument.

Those that advocate the twomodel approach not only provide effective
reasoning, but also give real evidence to support their claims. For
instance, the twomodel approach has been used successfully at
elementary, high school, and university levels. At Michigan State
University, a creationist professor and an evolutionist colleague teach
many undergraduate classes. Any person who is looking for true answers
to such a controversial issue will appreciate real evidence in terms of
support for the arguments; this is to the advocates' advantage.

Along with respected sources come well thoughtout studies that have
been completed. One of the best studies mentioned in Bergman's book
answers this question: do students better understand scientific
principles when taught fro ma twomodel approach of origins (evolution
and creation) or a onemodel approach (only evolution or only creation)?
Richard Bliss, a strong advocate of creation science, used a control
group and an experiment group who were about the same before the
experiment, but after the experiment, the group that learned for a two
model approach had more positive attitudes, learned very much about
evolution, and argued significantly better than the other group. From
this study, Bliss concluded that <*>.

Those advocating the twomodel approach not only present a strong
argument, but they are also effective with the reasoning. The following
will show that the opposition does present impressive counterarguments,
but their argument becomes increasingly weak due to excellent reasoning
in the advocates' argument. For example, some people feel <*>. Those who
support the twomodel approach respond by stating that questioning those
certain issues that cannot always be discussed rationally broadens
student perspective and makes them more tolerant of other world views.

Others claim it is against the law to teach the creation model. The
opposition (twomodel approach) claim that <*>. They also support this
claim with a U.S. Supreme Court case that permitted the objective study
of religion and the fact that in some states, like Mississippi, it is
against the law to teach (surprise) evolution.

What about attempts made by teachers to indoctrinate students? the
opposition asks. The twomodel approach advocates reply that this is
possible, but it can happen in political science, sociology, or any
other class. They claim,
it is virtually impossible not to teach about religion in schools.
Religious ideas have been extremely important in development of Western
Civilization its values, culture, and social institutions. With the cur
rent emphasis on moral education, values clarification, and death
education, religious values are bound to be brought up and discussed
more often in school now than they have been in the recent past.

The most common argument against the twomodel approach is probably that
<*>. They respond that, first of all, this statement can be used against
teaching of evolution. There is a scientific theory that states
evolution happened under conditions that do not exist today (because
life does not originate naturally, as it supposedly did back then);
thus, scientists cannot create the same conditions they assume were the
original ones.

Taking all of the main claims and reasoning presented by the advocates
into consideration, one can see a great deal of potential in their case.
What they desire most is for schools to teach evolution and creation
simultaneously, and the most probable method is through the school board
of education of different schools. With this excellent reasoning they
use to support their incredible claims, one can visualize how extremely
important this issue is, especially considering how significant an
education is to a student. The next step is to take the most appropriate
action, which will not be difficult considering how successful the two
model approach has been in schools.








<ICLEUSMRQ0002.1>
Mercy killing, or euthanasia, is the giving of an easy, painless death
to one suffering from an incurable or agonizing ailment. Patients faced
with euthanasia have to make a hard decision of whether or not to end
his or her pain with death or to try to deal with it. Mercy killing is
an complex issue which has ignited a fiery debate in the medical
profession as well as others concerned with ethic and human rights. Many
people argue that the person will die anyway, and the decision to substi
tute a painful death for a painless death should be his or her personal
choice. I, also think that an individual should be allowed the freedom
that God granted us with the gift of life itself.

In many of my articles, euthanasia was treated as an issue of value more
than consequence. Individual articles expressed the fact that no one has
the right to take someone else life. Some say that in cases of
euthanasia they <*>. Many supporters of euthanasia feel that the
patients would have wanted to die. Opposers feel that letting a person
die or assisting them in the ending of their life is an immoral act.

Many advocates feel that the person will die anyway, that the purpose is
not to invade the person's right to life, but only to substitute a
painful for a painless death. Some argue that the person's death process
is being prolonged and society is going against his or her right to the
pursuit of happiness. Others think that the suffering patient is useless
to society and to his or herself. <*>. These thoughts spark up the issue
on values.

We are often taught in church that life is a gift of God. Parents
instill the happiness of having life. These beliefs are all means of
creating values and beliefs within an individual. There has been so much
controversy in society whether or not a doctor should be allowed to use
euthanasia as a death process and whether the use of euthanasia
conflicts with moral beliefs.

In the case of Dr. Kevorkian the legal issues were shaky. They could not
decide if <*>. This meant that there was some obvious debate on the
issue as to whether or not Kevorkian committed a crime or if there was
even a crime committed. The patient was tested competent and she fully
consented to the process. Although the patient's doctor thought that her
plan for euthanasia was precipitous or drastic she continued to pursue
it. The director of the center for Medical Ethics at the University of
Chicago classified Kevorkian's acts as "...against the norms of
medicine". Norms are usually classified as a standard of conduct or
behavior that should or must be followed. Certain norms are usually
taught as values to individuals. Therefore in different terms Siegler
was saying that Kervokian went against certain established values.

Never at once in an article does it mention that Euthanasia precedes
some type of consequence. They focused mostly on the fact that mercy
killing is immoral and goes against many values and beliefs. They
concentrate on the personal feeling of families. In my article "The Last
Goodbye" there was never any debates or court cases presented. Most
articles about cases of euthanasia are written in a more personal or sym
pathetic persona. The tone of the articles is always very melancholy. If
euthanasia was ever argued as an act of consequence it probably would
not have the impact that it has by handling it a values issue. Society
always has interest in speaking up on the lack of societal values than
to speak of the consequences that society should expect with the use of
euthanasia.

In my article "Prolifers Say Cruzan Death a Signal of Things to Come",
prolife activists argue that these cases <*>. I personally don't agree
with that. I don't believe the United States will tolerate an abundance
of mercy killings. People will start making this a habit. These
prolifers feel that this is what these people are doing. They feel that
the United States is advocating killing a person if you feel they don't
want to live. Of course this is not true. I believe the U.S. lacks
certain morals and values but to allow mercy killing to be a phenomenon
would be outrageous.

Coinciding with values, "I believe God gave all people the gift of life"
. Some gifts are given outright and others require some prayer but all
God's gifts are restricted not because of any lack of generosity, but
because He has to make us responsible for its use when He entrusts the
gifts to our freedom. Freedom itself is his greatest gift. Life has been
given and its allotted span goes with the gift. It is not society's
choice to decide when he or she has had enough of life. God allows many
people to destroy animals and plants because they are not persons and
are provided for our use and consumption. Human life is not on the same
level as animal life; personhood makes the difference.

No point in time will anyone ever be able to feel the physical, mental,
or emotional pain that a person suffering is going through. Others only
witness or think they know the discomfort or displeasure a person feels.
It is very hard to say whether or not a doctor should be allowed to en a
painful life. I feel that if the person is suffering so much and he or
she feels that to go on living is useless, than that should be the
patients personal decision. I also think that if the person has a chance
of being cured and happy, then euthanasia should be a restricted
process. The person suffering should remember <*>. 






 













<ICLEUSMRQ0003.1>
The highest sentence that can be enforced by the American Judicial
system is that of death. Capital punishment has been carried out on
criminals for quite some time, but never without a strong opposition.
Many people view capital punishment as a heinous act that is morally
incorrect. The fact still remains that in our current society, the
majority of Americans support capital punishment. For every American
that sees capital punishment as a senseless and unnecessary act of
violence, there are several who believe that this sentence is the
ultimate act of justice.

For as long as the act of capital punishment has been around, the
arguments for and against it have also been clearly present. When forced
to compare these arguments, it is clear that the argument opposing the
death penalty is both stronger and more sensible. While it can be
demonstrated that both sides of the capital punishment argument have
strengths and weaknesses, it is the "antideath" argument that
ultimately presents a more powerful case. The value of human life plays
a huge role in the arguments both for and against the death penalty. The
focus of this essay is to analyze the conflicting arguments concerning
the death penalty and to show how the value of human life is affected by
these arguments.

The arguments in favor of capital punishment revolve around the ancient
biblical concept of "an eye for an eye". For example, a criminal who
murders should himself be murdered to fulfill what is considered by many
to be justice. It is most often the family members of victims who
support this ideology. These feelings must be understood because of the
amount of rage that these people experience towards the perpetrator of
the crime. Anyone who is placed in their shoes would wish for the death
penalty to be administered to the guilty party. Advocates of the death
penalty, such as Robert Hoyler, support this claim by stating, <*>. This
presents a strong point in the argument in favor of capital punishment.

The most commonly used argument in favor of capital punishment is that
the death penalty is the strongest deterrent in our society. The main
claim of deterrence focuses upon the idea that an individual is less
likely to commit a serious crime when he or she is aware that the
resulting penalty may be death. It is a known fact that for most people,
the biggest fear in life is the fear of death. If the death penalty does
indeed cause potential criminals to fail to carry out their planned
actions, then the idea of deterrence is certainly a major benefit to the
argument in favor of capital punishment. 

There are several other arguments in favor of capital punishment that
present valid points. In addition to doing what is considered to be
justice, Robert Hoyler claims that the death penalty also serves as a
beneficial act to our society by <*>. These concepts in conjunction with
the other arguments in favor of capital punishment all prove to act as
relative strengths. 

The argument against capital punishment presents a clear and sensible
case that rebuts the main claims of the advocates of the death penalty.
Opponents to capital punishment center their beliefs around the proverb
that "two wrongs don't make a right". The opponents argue their case
with a consideration of the sanctity and value of human life. When the
death penalty is requested as a sentence, it is usually based upon the
rage of our society towards a criminal's violent act. Humans do not make
logical decisions when their thoughts are based upon rage. Individuals
act on impulse and emotion rather than thinking out their actions. Each
man and woman on this planet has the desire for revenge, but this does
not make revenge a suitable course of action. When the death penalty is
carried out, society lowers the value of human life. A criminal's life
is generally considered to be of less value than the life of an innocent
man. When society takes the life of a criminal, they set the value of
his life equal to that of the victim, and, therefore unconsciously lower
the value of their own lives. Richard Nygaard supports this concept by
saying, <*>. Society and the government have no right to take the life
of another man. When they do carry out this heinous action, they simply
lower themselves to the status of the criminal. <*>.

A continuation of this idea focuses on the concept of premeditated
actions. Advocates of the death penalty support harsh punishments for
violent actions that are thought out or planned rather than carried out
on impulse. The death penalty is usually a sentence for those whose acts
were determined to be premeditated. When the death penalty is inflicted
upon a criminal, the value of human life for both the innocent and the
guilty plummets to a shameful level. Nygaard states,<*>. This makes the
act of capital punishment just as criminal and unjustified as that of
the criminal. Society becomes barbaric when they take the time to plan
out and then eagerly anticipate the death of another man.

As mentioned previously, one of the main claims of the advocates of
capital punishment focuses on the idea of the death penalty acting as a
deterrent. This is a concept that does not have much evidence to support
it and can therefore easily be refuted. While many believe that the
death penalty is the most effective deterrent, it is not a proven fact.
It is simply impossible for the average person to get inside the mind of
a criminal and see what he or she fears most. It is clear that an indivi
dual is deterred by what he or she fears most, but for many violent
criminals there simply is no fear. Opponents of capital punishment see
the death penalty as a deterrent that is no more effective than one of
life imprisonment. David Conway writes, <*>. Jeffrey Reiman also
supports this claim by saying, <*>. It does not seem like the death
penalty is functioning as an effective deterrent, since the number of
violent crimes has not dropped and the number of prisoners on death row
continues to increase. The claim that the death penalty is a superior
deterrent is simply weak and unsupported. <*>.

The fact is that society simply craves violence and capital punishment
is one of the only legal means of achieving it. Capital punishment is an
escape that allows the government and society to express their anger
towards the criminals that destroy their civilization. It is an act
which has no rationale or sensibility. It is simply based upon the human
desire to get even and seek revenge. Why should we be concerned with the
life of a violent criminal? The violent criminal is still a member of
society. Killing the criminal lowers the value of our own lives. Society
begins to live on spite, unconscious of what is actually taking place,
the effective destruction of civilization. It is time for people to wake
up and understand that capital punishment does not benefit anyone in a
way that imprisonment could not.








<ICLEUSMRQ0004.1>

The flames and rage that characterized racial relations in the late
1960's and early 70's in America seemed to have returned in the fall of
1992. Riots on college campuses were in the news again. Students at some
southern schools insisted that black cultural centers be built at the
heart of campus. They said there was a need for greater cultural
awareness and complained that administrators built these centers in
places where they would not get too much attention. The students felt
that administrators were merely trying to quell their complaints without
recognizing the true necessity for such centers.

With the rioting came a surge of articles reanalyzing the tents of
affirmative action. Most of the articles dealt with the controversy
surrounding quotas, particularly, quotas for blacks. Proponents of the
argument point to statistics which show affirmative action has not achie
ved its desired results and say that is exactly why it is still needed
and perhaps made more aggressive. They say that racism exists today and
every measure to combat it helps. Opponents say that as long as there
are quotas, blacks will not have confidence in their own merits. They
argue that caucasians are reinforcing in blacks an image of
victimization wherein blacks expect themselves to fail. Both sides
present strong cases for their argument. I plan first to define
affirmative action, then to show how proponents defend its legality. I
plan to use both sides of the argument to show that affirmative action
is still necessary. Finally, because I feel that legislation to insure
the rights of minorities is necessary, I plan to discuss how proponents
of affirmative action can improve their argument.

Affirmative action is a term first coined by President John F. Kennedy
early in his term. He stated in Executive Order 10925 in March of 1961:
<*>. Author Bill Shaw states that, <*>. In discussing these definitions
I will concentrate on affirmative action for blacks, particularly in
regards to quotas.

Opponents of affirmative action state that it is unconstitutional. They
say that other groups suffer reverse discrimination due to the awarding
of special privileges to blacks. In particular, opponents to affirmative
action argue the case of white males experiencing reverse
discrimination. A proponent of affirmative action, however, reminds the
white male <*>. White males may possibly be facing reverse
discrimination, but it is only in light of continued discrimination
against blacks. Shaw goes on to state that, <*>. Another author states
that, <*>. Gillepsie goes on to say that race and sex were always
criteria for hiring but it was so accepted that employers wanted white
males that no one noticed it. She says affirmative action only made the
criteria visible. There are rules to follow when carrying out
affirmative action policies that can be unconstitutional if ignored.
Affirmative action in and of itself, however, is not unconstitutional if
carried out correctly. 

Now that we have established the legality of affirmative action, let us
assess the necessity. By arguing that affirmative action hasn't worked,
opponents of the argument are really defending the need for such
programs. They are admitting that racism still exists. They admit that
racism is wrong and should be alleviated. How should we do it then?

Opponents argue that blacks will never experience true equality until
they achieve of their own merit. Quotas, they argue, reaffirm
communications of black failure. They argue that blacks receive this
message of expected failure and never strive to attain higher goals.
They feel defeated before they begin. Opponents state that it is up to
blacks to raise their morals and their standards for education. They
demand blacks to get out of jail, stope using and selling drugs, and end
the cycle of teenage pregnancies. Beside the fact that the opponents
make unfair generalizations, they ignore the fact that blacks probably
got into these situations as a result of discrimination and oppression.
They ignore the fact that blacks can't take part in the system until
they are allowed in.

Proponents recognize that the only way to influence individuals' hiring
and recruiting practices is to establish a law that prevents them from
discriminating. By setting up protective guidelines they hope minorities
will get into the systems that will represent and challenge their
talents as is deserved. The proponents realize that without laws to
insure a certain number of minorities be hired, many would never be
hired.

To make their arguments more effective, advocates of affirmative action
need to present detailed analysis of their arguments and do so clearly.
They need to state at the beginning of their articles what affirmative
action and whether they are solely discussing quotas or talking about
less specific hiring and recruiting practices.

Advocates could strengthen their arguments by addressing claims of the
opposition. Most writers are aware of the opposition's claim and
generally defend their own claims. However, with an issue as complex as
affirmative action (which seems never to have been clearly defined:
President Kennedy first used the term in 1961 and it didn't appear in
the New York Times Reader's Guide to Periodical Literature for another
fourteen years) writer's need to examine all minute aspects of the
opposition's argument and expose the underlying issues. For example,
with the argument that separation of whites and blacks will increase
antiracial sentiments, advocates need to discuss this and illumine the
fact that the races will remain separate until affirmative action gives
blacks a chance to inhabit the same positions as whites.  As an opponent
William R. Beer argues, <*>. Advocates of affirmative action need to be
aware of the opponents statement that blacks and whites separate
themselves causing increased racial tension, and they must reemphasize
the need, therefore, for legislation that will help to expose the two
races to one another's culture and similarities. 

Advocates could strengthen their argument by addressing the opponents'
claim that quotas reinforce black failure. Proponents need to argue that
the effects of discrimination without quotas would be worse than the
minor failures that occur because they are expected to. They need to
address the fact that blacks' expectations of themselves will rise after
they succeed within the system, and the only way to guarantee they get
into the system is through affirmative action programs.

Although both sides present a strong argument, I think there is still a
need for affirmative action. I think both sides of the argument point to
this fact by their statements that racial tension still exists and the
only way to eliminate it is to expose both blacks and whites to one
another's culture. If advocates were to strengthen their argument by
clearly exposing the subtleties of their opponents' argument, they would
have a case that is nearly infallible. Affirmative action may not have
worked in the first thirty years of its existence. However, slavery was
around for two centuries; we can't really expect racial tensions to be
alleviated in this short amount of time.



<ICLEUSMRQ0005.1>

Yoda, that little green guy from Star Wars? Actually no, not yoda, but
yoga. 

Many people may encounter this same problem of understanding when the
topic of yoga comes into conversation. Yoga is a relaxation technique
typically practiced by what some Westerners would classify as "new age"
type people. The person asking the questions in this conversation may
then ask what "new age" is. Hopefully they would get an answer
explaining the new age movement and what its followers believe.
Moreover, this whole scenario would probably fit better if it occurred a
little more than ten years ago. A short while back many people were not
aware of yoga or the religion to which it belongs.
However, the United States being the big melting pot it has claimed to
be, everyone must be pleased at the same time. People were tired of
rules and went searching for something that could unify everyone. With a
new discovery of unification a "new age" of ideas, beliefs, and values
was formed. The whole new age movement is becoming very popular in
society today due to the extreme political correctness and the fear of
possibly offending other humans. After reading through many sources on
new age ideas and the teaching of those ideas, I have discovered that
the case against the teaching of new age beliefs is stronger than the
case for it because it not only uses an argument of values but also uses
an argument of consequence along with first hand accounts, use of more
mainstream sources, and the use of hard facts.
It is quite hard for any author to even make a case supporting the
teaching of new age ideas when there really is no exact definition of
what is encompassed by the phrase "new age". One magazine against the te
aching of new age beliefs stated that indeed it was hard to define, but
found four main themes that could best tie most new age people together:

<*>.

In order to harvest the energy need as a New Age follower, many people
engage in techniques such as yoga, creative visualization, and
meditation to reach an altered state of consciousness. Some perform
psychic healing, use crystals to tap into the energy of the universal
life force, or contact "spirit guides" to give them wisdom, advice, and
direction. If much of that sounds a little like Eastern religions, it
should. Most of the New Age practices were adopted from not just one,
but a few Eastern religions such as Buddhism, Taoism and Hinduism.

Now that "New Age" has been thoroughly defined, the spread of the
movement can be closely observed. Like any other group of ideas or
beliefs, the only way to reach the most people possible is through
teaching others and then those people teaching other people and so on.
The teaching of New< Age ideas raises an ethical issue due to its
different values, and because it is not yet established. When attempting
to establish a certain case with a group of people, there must be
unquestionable authority so the people will buy into the argument. This
is one of the problems faced by the argument in favor of teaching New
Age ideas. The majority of the sources which I read in favor of New Age
teachings were written by one author and contained that one authors
opinion of what is right the whole way through the literature. This
action by the author brings up the credibility of the author and their
values. Everyone can have their own values, but when an author is
attempting to make a strong argument in order to persuade an audience to
agree with them, they should include a little more than opinion and one
way thinking.

The values and beliefs of the different authors in favor of teaching New
Age ideas are the entire basis of their argument. Because of the large
amount of "personal" values or ones fabricated by the authors, the
objective of arguing this topic as a question of value must be thrown
out. furthermore, the issue of looking at this argument as a question of
consequence in a positive manner can not possibly be considered. Because
of the values stated by the authors in the literature, the reader will
come to the conclusion that many New Age values are actually dangerous.
In one case an author of a book supporting New Age teachings writes
about Andrew Weil, a founder of the Beneficial Plant Research
Association, who studies plants used in traditional cultures for food,
dyes, medicine, pesticides, and other purposes and markets them in the
United States.

<*> 

I honestly ran out of my room after I read the above quote to ask my
fellow neighbors if they too thought tobacco was the most destructive
drug in the United States. We came up with the idea that is was not the
most destructive, and the most destructive was most likely alcohol if
all the auto deaths and torn families were included. What does this have
to do with the authors argument? Well, after that false statement
grabbed my attention, I looked through the rest of the argument and
seriously doubted it as a true argument. For all I know, the author may
have referred to other sources that made facts up or perhaps he was
making things up himself. Besides the use of false information, the
authors subject believes that legalization of narcotics would lessen
drugrelated crimes. That is a good example of using the question of
consequence in the argument, except in this author's case it worked
against him!

Unlike the case for teaching New Age ideas, the case against it uses
both the question of consequence and the question of value to form a
strong argument in favor of its cause. A consequence which leads to the
strong argument is the use of mainstream sources and literature. Because
the case against the teaching of New Age ideas reaches more people, the
argument is more powerful. An example of this is the magazine
Christianity Today. As I was researching my topic, using infotrac 2000,
I found there were many entries on New Age ideas that came from the
publication Christianity Today. It was at this point that I realized how
popular of a Christian magazine it really was. The more people that read
about an argument against New Age teachings, the more people will form a
similar opinion of their own.

In many articles the case against the teaching of New Age ideas is
actually supported by stories of real people to strengthen the argument
as a question of value and consequence. One particular article, "When
the New Age Comes to Class" in the Christian magazine Moody, does a
stupendous job of strengthening the case against teaching New Age ideas
by providing testimonies from people who have been directly affected by
the New Age movement.

<*>

The above quote clearly shows a consequence of the Teaching of New Age
ideas. Obviously, the behavior demonstrated by the children in the
accounts was not typical for that child, or really any child for that
matter. It was not a positive consequence, but a negative one that also
conflicted with that families values as Christians. The rest of the
article talks about the growing popularity of applying New Age methods
in public schools and how to safeguard children against that type of
negative influence. I thought that overall this was an extremely well
written article to support the case against the teaching of New Age
beliefs. It continuously gave true examples of people that had to deal
with this problem in public school systems and how they conquered it,
whether going to the school board or attaching it legally. One thing
that also made this article a really strong argument was the authors
reference to the book of values he trusts in, the Bible.

The most important parts of an argument are facts to support the
author's claim. When dealing with values, an author needs some sort of
true information to back up what they believe. In the case for the
teaching of New Age ideas none of the authors had any books or hard
facts to support themselves. On the other hand, the case against the
teaching of New Age ideas was supported with, and many time made
reference to passages from the Bible, a book of values. Many people feel
that the Bible is just a conglomeration of fairytales to explain a few
things humans may question. I disagree with this viewpoint. I feel that
the Bible is very real and true. Whether or not a reader agrees with the
trueness of the Bible, it is clear that it has been established over
time and is accepted all over the world. For the case against the
teaching of New Age beliefs this helps out a great deal, but as for the
case in favor of the teaching of New Age beliefs I could nowhere find
any sort of book of values.

The overall point should now be in focus. All this paper must have been
used for something. The case for the teaching of New Age beliefs was
indeed a weak argument. There were not many hard facts supplied by the
authors and even the authors themselves were questionable after
observing the information given by them. Furthermore, no factual source
or book of values was referred to. On the other hand, the case against
the teaching of New Age beliefs was the opposite in all aspects. It used
many first hand accounts from people involved, published information so
that it could reach a greater number of people, and relied on support
from a very true and established book of values called The Bible. 





    
<ICLEUSMRQ0006.1>
A nuclear bomb has the explosive power of three hundred tons of TNT. It has
strength to completely level small cities, and ravage large ones. When
dealing with nuclear power and its use as a source of electricity, the
general public becomes instantly closed minded on the issue. They see
visions of mushroom clouds and high levels of radiation, do to the one
sided way Americans have been brought up. Thus, a large group of
opponents to nuclear power are formed, they fear this new entity, seeing
it as a dangerous and powerful threat to their lifestyles. However, the
proponents see this new form of power as a great way for the United
States to become independent from the Middle East's plentiful oil
deposits which was a main issue in the Persian Gulf War. The arguments
are strong in both favors. Through careful analyzation of both arguments
in the fight for nuclear power, clearly the opponents center their
argument toward the values and beliefs of the common An American, while
the proponents use facts and figures to refute the opponent's claims,
and ease the minds of the people.

The opponents of nuclear power try to appeal to the values of the public
in an attempt to persuade them away from the use of atomic energy. These
values center mainly around safety, people do not want to back something
that will harm them or their children for years to come. Thus, their
argument focuses on the dangers of atomic usage. The fundamental points
that they convey in their arguments are as follows: the reliability of
the safety systems of a nuclear power plant, the dangers of nuclear
waste, the sheer cost of building an atomic facility, and the
possibility of a reactor explosion. The argument places fear into the
public's eye, by taking advantage of their unfamiliarity about the
subject.

The proponents must counter act the opposition's argument and comfort
the minds of the uninformed American. They accomplish this by educating
the public on the fact around nuclear power. The goal in this type of
argument is to make the public aware of the truths of nuclear power, so
they will see that it is not dangerous, but beneficial. They base their
argument on four main things: the cost of nuclear power versus the costs
of conventional power, the safe operation of nuclear power facilities as
compared to conventional power facilities, the clean operation of
nuclear plants, and the amount of precaution took when dealing with the
waste products. These points compose the majority of the supporter's
arguments in the stance for atomic energy.

To begin with, these supporters use the fact that nuclear power plants
are more costefficient then conventional power plants. Nuclear power
advocates preach that the cost of coal and oil burning is 50 percent
more expensive to operate than nuclear power are in the New England
area.
Furthermore, it is argued that nuclear power is 20 percent cheaper then
coal burning in the Midwest. These points are used to counter the
opponents' arguments that nuclear power requires a huge capital
investment. The supporters then stress that nuclear power is very cost
efficient in the long run, and the reason that it requires such a huge
capital investment is because it will then run safely and efficiently
for many years. Without emphasizing that nuclear power is much cheaper
per kilowatt hour, the whole reason for having nuclear power plants
would be shot down from the start. With nuclear power being so new and
different, it is very scary for people. In order for these people to be
sure that nuclear power is a good alternative to conventional power,
they need to be assured that it is safe and more economical.

Another big factor is the safety measures involved with nuclear power.
It is important to stress the terrible accidents that occur with other
power plants when arguing for nuclear power. This tactic is very good
when one looks at the entire issue at hand. People see that nuclear
power is gaining serious momentum in our world today. They see it being
used as weapons in war and for generating electricity. The problem is
how most of the population is receiving its knowledge on nuclear power
through the media. Throughout time, the media has obtained the
reputation of blowing issues out of proportion when they are somewhat
controversial. Nuclear power for example, made to look bad no matter how
minor the situation, resulting in a constant bad reputation. Advocates
of nuclear power simply show the people that other forms of power plants
have accidents too. They constantly bring up the point that coal mining
is a very dangerous job. Coal miners can contract lung cancer, they can
be flooded when in the mines, they can be killed in a methane explosion,
and they can also become ill with black lung, which is any chronic lung
disease that leads to fibrosis and loss of lung function. They also
stress the possibility of fires in coal and oil burning plants. These
fires are real, and many deaths occur, yet the media does not emphasize
them as much as nuclear plant accidents. Through these examples that
simply prove other sources to be just as dangerous, nuclear power can be
redeemed as a viable option for power.

Once the topics are viewed on the same level, the supporters move into
discussing the clean operation of atomic power facilities. They show
their audience that a nuclear power plant emits no air pollution, and
less radiation then a coal fired power plant. This is a positive aspect
to point out, because most people think that the plants produce large
amounts of air pollution. People see the large exhaust towers associated
with nuclear power plants and assume that they are releasing lethal
gases into the air. Actually the towers are nothing more then large
water cooling towers that emit nothing but water vapor and steam. The
advocates of atomic power also show the amount lives saved with using
nuclear power. For every thousand meggawatts of nuclear power, between
twenty and one hundred lives are saved from using conventional power. In
today's society which stresses a safer and cleaner environment, this sta
tement would sit very well with most people, and may even persuade these
people to like nuclear power flat out. Now that the people are aware
that atomic power plants run completely environmentally safe, the
supporters of nuclear power begin to discuss the main concern over
nuclear power plants, waste.

Opponents beat the nuclear waste issue to death, and it is the hardest
point for the advocates to deal with. The fact is, there is waste from
nuclear power plants, the waste is radio active, and it does last a long
time. What the opponents stress, are the dangers of this waste product
on humans and the environment. The proponents know nuclear waste is
harmful and acknowledge that, but their argument is that there is just
so little of it out there, and today's storage techniques are so
advanced, there is nothing to worry about. Though simple, easyto
understand facts such as: <*> the average American can easily relate to
the amount of waste being produced. This tactic is far better then just
throwing out an amount of waste represented by a number, which many
people could not compare to anything, thus losing the validity of the
argument. Many supporters know this and refer to the amount of waste as
being equal to the size of aspirin, chalk, or any other easily
identifiable objects in their argument. The proponents also bring in the
coal and oil burning plants again, stating that they are bad by shipping
out over thirty rail road cars full of ash per day. This comparison yet
again eases the environmentalist mind of today's nuclear society.

Nuclear power is becoming increasingly prevalent in today' world, and
just like all other forms of energy, it definitely does have its
drawbacks. It has the capabilities of being unsafe and expensive in the
beginning, but once it is used, nuclear power is much better for the
environment, for people's lives, and better for the economic gain of the
United States. It is with innovations like this that we move ahead in
the world of energy. Nuclear power will truly be an asset to our
revolutionary country of life, liberty, property, and the pursuit for a
safer form of energy.


































  




<ICLEUSMRQ0007.1>
School integration has been a hot topic across the United States since
1954 when the Supreme Court decided that, <*> and racial segregation in
schools was declared unconstitutional. After this decision was made, the
number of black students attending schools with white students increased
slowly but surely. As of 1970 fortyfour percent of all black students
in the southern region were enrolled in majoritywhite buildings
compared to twentyeight percent in the northern and western states. The
ethical dispute over school integration has based itself on questions
over value and consequence to make an attempt at determining if
integration will improve or harm the education of children as well as
race relationships.

One of the main objectives of school integration is to provide students
from the inner city with a better quality education. Many find that the
best way to accomplish this is by moving students from an environment
that is infested with crime and drugs to one that has an atmosphere more
suitable and conductive to learning. According to a thesis written by
Howard Fuller, <*>. In fact a study done by two researchers from New
York found that black students did much better academically when they
were bused to a formerly all white school than did those black students
who remained at the all black school. A significant factor which
contributed to the success of school integration was the time in which
transfer students were placed into the desegregated school system.
Generally, children who were placed into the school system at an early
age such as kindergarten or first grade showed greater academic
achievement than did those who were placed in school later in their
education. This is because the children had more time to adapt to the
environment. Furthermore, the children received little or no exposure to
the educational environment of the inner city thus, these transfer
students who had not become accustomed to one particular style of
learning were more easily able to adapt to a new method of learning.

Even though there are some individuals who believe that integrating
children from the inner city into suburban area schools is beneficial to
the education of less fortunate children, there are some who believe
that there may be more negative consequences than positive. Many
educational researchers have theorized that academic achievement is
directly related to the selfidentity and selfesteem of children.
According to the book Desegregation and Beyond, the climate that
classroom teachers structure is very important in allowing young people
to feel secure and to feel the need to achieve in the classroom. <*>. A
child's selfidentity also plays a role in the amount of academic
success or failure. When a child who is accustomed to being in a school
setting where he or she is part of the majority suddenly becomes part of
a minority as a transfer student he or she can experience a great deal
of emotional trauma which can cause a hinderance in academic
performance. This is when teachers, administrators, and parents must
take care not to impose any negative attitudes on to the children. <*>.
As can seen, it is not solely the idea of integrating the students that
can benefit or harm a child's education but the educational setting
including the attitudes of the faculty, peers, as well as the community.

The second goal for school integration programs is to help break down
the racial barriers and promote better race relationships within the
community. I attended school in the MequonTiensville school district
where during the 19861987 school year our schools became part of a
school integration program called Chapter 220. I was in seventh grade at
the time and I can verify that the battle for improvement of race
relationships was both won and lost by implementing this program. For
example, when the "220" kids came into school they were all very timid
and only made friends among one another. It took a while for everyone to
become acquainted with each other and overcome the initial stereotypes
that so many people possess.

Once people started to get to the point where they could act as
themselves without having to put up a front, friendships as well as
enemies were formed. We did not experience many problems during my
seventh and eighth grade years partly due to the fact that the number of
black students compared to the number of white students was very low and
many black students felt like they had to make friends with the white
students in order to fit in. I did not really realize any major
differences between the black and white students until we reached high
school and the integration program began to expand and more students
were implemented into the program at an older age. These students who
came in to the suburban district at an older age were more reluctant to
change and many of them were rebellious towards students and teachers.
Also, when more "220" students were put into our system, many of them
began to disassociate themselves from the white students and started to
form groups which segregated the two races. Every year more students
came into the system and more problems began to arise. Many black
students took advantage of the white communities reluctance to speak out
about their misconduct because of the fear of being deemed as racist.
This led to abuse of the rules and regulations of the school by some
black students which in turn started an uprising with the white students
and the goal of strengthening race relationships was threatened.

One of the biggest downfalls of school integration, I feel comes from
the community. When the first mention of school integration came about,
almost everyone was in a frenzy, blacks and whites alike. A writer for
the New York Times Magazine pointed out the fact that the white
officials often voiced their support for the neighborhood school concept
supposedly because of its educational merits and its importance to the
maintenance of strong ties between the family and school. But in
reality, their support for the concept rested in its capacity to
maintain segregation. The feeling from individuals in the black
community was mutual. Many black people felt that the integration
program was in essence the white community telling the black community
what was best for it, irrespective of its views and concerns. The
community began to see a growing recognition by blacks of the need to
control the substance of their children's education. It is feelings such
as these from both the black and the white communities that put a strain
on the success of the school integration program. Children receive their
prejudices and stereotypes from their parents and if they see that their
parents are against desegregation then the children will have the same
negative attitude. I feel that there are both values and consequences to
the integration of schools and if the program is going to be successful,
it needs support from venues other than the school systems themselves.








   

<ICLEUSMRQ0008.1>
<*>

The previous statement was one delivered by a young woman enrolled in a
Philosophy course at Marquette University. Responding to the question of
the day: what is would be like to be of another color, Alberta, being of
color, describes what it would be like to be white. With a cold
realization in her words, it can be found that racism in our
Universities is not a makebelieve problem. It is a profound one that
needs attention from both the black and white communities. The African
American on a predominantly white campus is the subject of racial
dispute and discrimination caused by stereotypes, and experiences. The
way to end this race war is not to highlight the differences,
segregating the black students from the white students, but to integrate
all races together, ridding campuses of their "politics of difference".

Leaving home for that first time to attend a University, is for many, a
major step in ones life. Not only are we thrown into an unfamiliar
scene, with freedoms abound, we arrive there by ourselves, with
unfamiliar people. For the African American attending a predominantly
white campus, this means dealing with all these problems plus the fear
of racial inferiority. Inferiority not the product of a shame bred in
the family, but caused by the acts of others in response to a difference
in skin color. <*>. Alongside the racism, is the fact that equality is
no longer as much of a fight as it is an issue. With time, politically,
there is no segregation of races, or differences in the color of skin.
It is only the remainder of a racist culture and the effects it has had
on the black community that linger on to keep the stereotypes alive.

From the time when slavery was abolished, through the Black Power
movement of the 60's, to today, the white majority in this country have
held themselves in higher respect. <*>. The white person in many cases,
feels uneasy towards those of another color because of stereotypes
carried amidst white culture. It is true that this scenario is not
always the case with a person of color, as obviously not all of the
white population holds racist views, but it is quite obvious that it is
a very significant problem. Examples like this show how stereotypes and
behaviors of white Americans towards black Americans could leave a mark
on a person. As with the example if Isaiah Thomas, it is not blackness
that makes a human a thief, it is the world they are forced to live in.
It is proven that whites and black alike, who live in poverty, must deal
with a higher crime rate unaffected by the color of ones skin. It is the
actions of the white community that have forced the black community to
live segregated and discriminated lives, causing poverty and hardships.

Similar to the treatment a person of color might experience in society,
a person of color must deal with the same stereotypes and
discriminations on a college level. As an example of black students at a
white University, a study was done at the Pennsylvania State University
discovering that <*>. Once again, evidence shows that the racism in our
Universities along with our societies, is not an unreality. With this
negative attitude towards those of different racial background, a
felling of inferiority is justified. 

One might ask, where does this feeling of inferiority caused by white
action lead the black community? For one thing, they are caused to fight
for their rights, granted by law, but not by humanity. The black student
faces their discrimination by standing up to the rights of a race. <*>.
With the equality we experience now, more than ever before, and as the
barriers of racial difference are weakened, the black community is given
freedoms to be heard at their university. Yet, instead of integrating
their thought with that of the rest of the students working to overcome
stereotypes, a growing surge of separate organizations arise,
organizations that the white students are usually not welcome to become
part of. In most prominent Universities, the presence of black
fraternities, sororities, unions, dances, the list goes on, is no longer
an uncommon one. As a result of their racial discriminations, the
African American black community has withdrawn to form their own
University system.

Seemingly a perfectly logical thing to do, it is really a step towards a
modern kind of segregation and a catalyst for opposition. Primarily, it
is an easy way for white students to ignore the obvious problems of
racism. As shown previously, racism on campus is a serious issue. In
separating the two sides of the issue, it is ignored. Also, in other
ways, the segregation is a cause of uneasiness of the white students
towards the black students of the university. When the black
organizations are formed, an opinion is also indirectly stated. The
white students are expected to be reverent and respectful to something
they know nothing about and are usually not welcome to become part of.
Tying this to an already stereotyped black population is the cause of
further ignorance and inequality. It is not dealing with the problem,
but ignoring it and in some ways igniting it. As a problem of not only
the students who accept the organizations, but the administrators who
allow them, the problem is not dealt with as it should be, but pushed
aside, made separate from the school. In this way, the "politics of
difference" is formed. One side, in highlighting their differences, is
causing the other side to resist.

One might argue that it is important for the black student to experience
their college years in this way, associating with those of the same
background and maintaining a symbol of a great national heritage. It is
true that they have many reasons to feel this way. As Steele mentions is
her essay <*>. His reasoning was <*>. With feelings like this caused by
white racism and black discrimination within the universities, forming
separate organizations could appear to be the only way to solve the
problem. In reality, it is not. Although it is important for the black
students to retain their cultural identity and pride, separating
themselves from the rest of the university is segregation, a horrible
reminder of the past that should not be part of higher education. In
effect, separate black organizations are not the answer.

It could also be argued that it is not the black students' job to solve
e problem caused by the white student. In reality, the white population
is not going to be the one to step forward to solve its own faults. The
black students must be the ones to start the change. By separating
themselves from the white students of the university, they hide their
fight from everyone but themselves; "out of sight, out of mind". As much
as it is the responsibility of the white student as the black one to
make a change, separating the two from each other will not solve
anything. Only in integrating the black students with the white students
can the problems can the problems begin to be solved.

In conclusion, <*>. When one opinion is stated, another opposing side is
automatically called forth. In separating this difference, it is also
ignored. Instead of solving the problems of racism on campus, the
separation technique of forming separate black organizations only falls
back on segregation. In the end, no problem is solved. It is in
integration and not segregation that white racism, black discrimination
and the "politics of difference" can be erased.




















































<ICLEUSMRQ0009.1>
Surrogate Motherhood is when a<*>. The ethical question of surrogate
motherhood arose as a result of the 1987 "Baby M" case. During this case
the surrogate mother asked the judge for the child that she had bore for
another couple back. <*>. Surrogacy is unethical because biologically
there are only two parents, excluding the adoptive mother. Surrogate
mother hood is not an ethical way for infertile couples to have a child
because of the emotional strains and ties present among the surrogate
mother and the other two parents. 

<*>. Many people feel that women should be allowed to control their own
bodies, insisting that surrogate motherhood is not just another way of
reproduction. Health services, however, argues that <*>. By saying that
surrogate motherhood fulfills a human longing in the infertile couples
lives, the author is claiming there is a void in the infertile couples
lives. The couple who is considering surrogacy view it as simply a way
to fill their childless void. They do not see the surrogate mother as a
person who has feelings, but rather as just a walking womb that will
help them to have a child. In many cases the surrogate mother's feelings
are not considered because she is strictly looked upon as a reproductive
structure. No human being should be looked upon as a reproductive
structure who has no feeling. 

The infertile couple's needs are often deemed much more important than
the surrogate mother's. <*>. Opposing this view Annas argues <*>. The
longing that the parents have to fill the biological and emotional need
is not significant enough to put the surrogate mother through suffering.
The infertile mother may perceive that she has a biological need but
cannot parent. For example, there are many people in the world who's
lives have not been altered because they are infertile. Surrogate
motherhood fulfills the biological needs of the father to reproduce, but
neglects those of the adoptive mother. As the article above states
couples who are desperate to have a child use the father's genetic
inheritance and not the mothers. Many times the mother may feel left
out. Due to the fact that she did not bear the child the mother may feel
that she does not deserve to "care" for it.

Due to the fact that the child is biologically only the fathers, there
is some debate over whether or not the child is being bought. <*>.
Others feels that <*>. You cannot simply say that surrogate motherhood
is like "renting a womb". The emotion of the biological mother is often
neglected. During pregnancy the surrogate mother experiences hormonal
changes that are preparing her, both physically and emotionally for
motherhood. When it comes time for the surrogate to give the baby to the
parents there can be an overwhelming feeling of emptiness. Biologically
the baby is just as much the surrogate mothers as it is the fathers,
and, therefore equal rights should be shared among the surrogate mother
and the other two parents.

Many people feel that there is nothing morally wrong with surrogate
motherhood. Others feel that <*>. Those who support surrogate motherhood
believe that <*>. I agree with those individuals who find surrogacy
unethical. I think the argument that is portrayed by those who are in
opposition to surrogate motherhood is very credible. <*>. Just by
creating safety standards and regulations for surrogate motherhood, it
is not possible to lessen the emotional turmoil.

Surrogate motherhood is morally and ethically flawed because of the
emotional stress put on the surrogate mother and the other two parents.
The strongest claim on the positive side is that surrogate motherhood
should be permitted because it helps the infertile woman to <*>. A look
at the overall consequences of surrogate motherhood shows that it does
not take into consideration all of the emotional problems that can
arise. Many people feel that surrogate motherhood is just another way of
reproduction. It has also been debated that surrogate motherhood is a
form of "baby selling". Surrogacy has been looked upon as <*>. The
positive aspects of surrogate motherhood do not form a substancial
argument for surrogacy, however, the negative emotional strains
illustrate that surrogate motherhood is not worth the pain.
















































<ICLEUSMRQ0010.1>

Medicine has made many advancements in the past several years. Drugs for
many diseases, like Dilantin for the treatment of seizures caused by
epilepsy have made the quality of life for several people increase.
Drugs promoted the longevity of many patients who otherwise wouldn't
have lived otherwise. People victimized by cancer and AIDS have long
depended upon DepoProvera and AZT for their therapeutic value. The
miracles of modern biochemical research have dramatically changed the
way we treat disease. However, drug companies have escalated their
prices over 82% over the decade of the 80's, making a crunch in the
pocketbooks of many Americans including the pharmacies and drug buyers,
who finally sued to get their fair share of discounts. Blatant
overpricing of many important drugs has drastically declined the quality
of health care among many Americans, especially the elderly and people
with fixed incomes. This is why federal intervention is necessary with
the establishment of a price regulation review board to stop the
skyrocketing of already outrageous prices. 

Health care statistics on expenditures alone are mind boggling. The
pharmaceutical industry agrues that the cost of drugs used outside
hospitals was $36.4 billion in 1991, only five percent of the total
national health costsa whopping $751.8 billion. That sounds like a
nice picture. However these statistics are flawed because 55 percent of
what American consumers paid for health care was directly out of pocket,
mostly because Americans were getting prescriptions outside of
hospitals. This pricegouging shows in high hospital bills, which <*>.

Even though the pharmaceutical industry argues that medical pricing
boards would raise prices and eliminate competition between companies,
actually the opposite seems to be true. As a result of having medical
price boards in other countries, for example, drugs are sold at rates
substantially cheaper than the United States. In Canada, where the
Patented Medicine Prices Review board was established, prices of drugs
by Canadian subsidiaries of American companies are substantially lower,
averaging 32%. Similar lower rates also happen i European subsidiaries,
where rates are anywhere from 7445 percent lower than the United
States. Most European countries under the European Community tend to
have drug price regulation boards as well, hence the lower prices.

In 1991, the Senate Special Committee on Aging reported in 1991 that
during the 80's inflation rose only 58 percent while drug prices rose
152%. This happens partly because <*>. They do so in several ways. As
companies change packaging and find better ways to use their drugs, they
tend to find ways to make more of a profit, sometimes marking up their
prices outrageously.

An Example of this type of gouging is DepoProvera. Because the FDA
approved the use of this former cancer drug for use as an oral contracep
tive, the price jumped from 14$ to 34$ per dose. Even though UpJohn
argued that it was trying to recup the cost of R&D by raising the price
of a "luxury drug", they were mistaken in doing so. An oral
contraceptive is an important drug, too because it decreases the risk of
unwanted pregnancy.

Another example of overpricing through packaging is in 1993, when buyers
of drugs in hospitals were angered after Dupontmerck discontinued
individually wrapped doses of products such as clot preventing agent
coumadin and pin killers percocet and percodan. Unit doses prevent
mixups which could put a client in danger of overdose or recieving the
wrong medication. This caused hospitals to absorb a 2400% increase in
price because hospitals had to hire more staff to sort the drugs into
unit dosages, purchasing drugs at a bulk bottle rate.

Yet another example of price blackmail is Sandoz corp. Requiring
healthcare providers to buy mandatory monitors for their drug Clozapril,
a drug used to treat senile dementia. This drug is used primarily in VA
Hospitals, where dementia is common. These monitors cost $9000 per
patient and are often of less quality than the ones the VA hospitals can
use at a much cheaper rate. Sandoz argues they are responsible is an
outside monitor is used, and complications occur from the drug. However
if the monitors are of better quality, this should not be a problem. The
FDA did not require this $9000 heart monitor in their agreement when
Sandoz got the patent for clozapril. Meanwhile the hospitals are faced
with negotiating with an other manufacturer of the drug. How can drugs
be given and healing happen with such prices over peoples heads?

As a nursing student, the indications of this are ominous, patients I
treat will not recieveproper care because they are afraid of it costing
too much for them to take their medicine. I don't want to be the one to
tell them that they can't have a certain medicine because they cant
afford it. Because of this, these Federal price regulatory board are
necessary to keep fairness on the mind of the pharmaceutical industry.
If companies like Merck and Upjohn don't look at who they are serving,
the Mothers, Fathers and children of America, they will lose business.
Yes, it is morally ethical for drug companies to make a profit, but
where is the limit? When does drug overpricing stop? It is up to the
American people to decide.































<ICLEUSMRQ0011.1>

The United States is one of the few countries that still employs the
death penalty as punishment for violent crime. The main argument
supporting capital punishment contends that it is the most effective
deterrent for these crimes. Opponents of the death penalty claim that it
is not only ineffective, but also immoral and unethical. both sides cite
statistics and offer various other reasons for their stance on the
issue. However, the opposing side offers more accurate statistics as
well as more valid reasons for the abolition of the death penalty.
Therefore, it is clear that capital punishment should be abolished based
on the stronger opposing argument, consisting of statistics that show
the ineffectiveness of the death penalty on the crime rate, the moral
and ethical questions it produces, and constitutional errors that occur
in a number of capital punishment cases.

There are a number of statistics that demonstrate the ineffectiveness of
the death penalty. First of all, states or countries that had the death
penalty and recently abolished it have experienced a drop in their crime
rates. A study conducted by Dane Archer, Rosemary Gartner, and Marc
Beittel showed that the murder rates of fourteen nations, <*>. Perhaps
the most obvious statistic for the ineffectiveness of the death penalty
lies in the noticeably higher crime rate in states that employ it. Many
people believe that it actually places a lower value on human life. This
is known as the brutalization effect. In this case, criminals seem to
model their behavior after the state. They believe, <*>. Further
evidence of this is demonstrated by a 1935 study conducted by Robert
Dann. After examining five highly publicized executions and the number
of murders in the sixty days before and after each one, he noted that an
average of 4.4 more homicides occurred in the period following the
executions. The Dann study also suggests that, <*>. This would support
the theory that suggests that it does not act as a deterrent, but rather
a catalyst, for violent crime. If that is the case, then the death
penalty is not only ineffective, but in some cases harmful. Yet another
study was conducted by Derral Cheatwood. He examined states with the
death penalty and factors such as the number of inmates on death row and
the number of people executed since 1976. This study also showed that,
<*>. Based on the numerous studies conducted, many criminologists have
concluded that, <*>. With so much evidence against the death penalty as
a deterrent, one would think that states would either decrease its use
or put a stop to it all together. The fact is, as one state executes a
criminal, others tend to follow suit, merely adding to the problem.

Proponents of capital punishment often stand by its use based on the
fact that it is provided for in the constitution should an individual
state choose to employ it. However, critics of capital punishment cite
statistics that show several constitutional errors in death penalty
cases. Time magazine reported that, <*>. This usually occurs because
courts are so eager to find a scapegoat for violent crimes. The tendency
is to convict an accused murderer at the first possible chance. This
hastiness makes for a number of investigative, clerical, and judicial
errors, often leading to defendants who are wrongly sentenced or even
wrongly convicted. An example of this is the case of a Virginia man
named Roger Keith Coleman. In 1982 he was convicted of murder despite nu
merous alibis and evidence in his favor. It is reported that the case
against Coleman <*>. He was executed on May 20, 1982. His case is still
being debated and those who supported his innocence are citing such
constitutional errors as a biased juror and the lack of a federal
evidentiary hearing. Errors have also been found to occur in the appeal
process that goes along with most death penalty cases. In the case of a
California man named Robert Alton Harris, Newsweek reported that his
appeal was not only dealt with hastily, but, <*>. This rush to finish
judicial business brings up the issue of the finality of the death
penalty. Even with appeals, it is not possible to acquit an innocent man
if he has been put to death. Courts have been accused of being, <*>.
Rushing through capital punishment cases and passing immediate and
sometimes hasty death sentences sacrifices several basic constitutional
rights. If the death penalty does not even adhere to our basic
constitutional rights, then how can one argue for its use based on the
fact that it is the law?

The most wellknown dispute over the death penalty exists on the ethical
side of the issue. Before dealing with the ethical argument against the
use of capital punishment, the ethical argument supporting it must be
examined. The most popular response in favor of the death penalty is
that fair is fair. Many people believe that the crime of taking a life
should be punished with the taking of a life. People also believe that
it is the best way to protect innocent people from murderers. While
these are valid arguments, they do not stand up to the ethical argument
against the death penalty.

Most people are opposed to the death penalty not because of its
inefficiency, but because of its brutality and lack of ethics. The main
question that arises here is whether or not killing a murderer is as bad
as being one. If one life is taken, is it right to take another? This
idea is based on the "two wrongs don't make a right" principle. Simply
putting the murderer to death will not bring back his victim. Furthering
the idea of the inhumanity of the death penalty is the intense pain it
causes. Social Theory and Practice wrote, <*>. It is also stated that
the state has, <*>. Opposition to capital punishment also comes from
religious circles. Many people argue that only God has the right to take
a life, not a judge or a prison warden. Finally, there is the issue of
protecting innocent people from murderers. First of all, if a person has
never been tried and convicted of murder, then how is the legal system
to know that they are one? If a person is on death row, it is because
they are a known murderer. How can the government protect innocent
people from a man that is already incarcerated? Killing a known murderer
is not going to stop an unknown murderer. Furthermore, life imprisonment
would have basically the same incarceration effect on a killer as would
the death penalty. Social Theory and Practice wrote, <*>. Either way,
they will not be released back into society. The ethical arguments in
favor of capital punishment are not only outweighed by, but also produce
many more arguments against it.

After examining arguments both for and against the use of capital
punishment, it is clear that it should be abolished. The evidence
opposing the death penalty far outweighs the evidence supporting its
use. Its ineffectiveness as a deterrent for crime, the constitutional
errors that occur in many capital punishment cases, and the immorality
of capital punishment are the main reasons for stopping its use.










<ICLEUSMRQ0012.1>


Before the days of new technology and advanced chemistry people cured
disease with known home remedies. Today, scientists have composed names
for such illnesses, and discovered cures for many of these. It is common
to simply ask a physician "for something" when sickness occurs. But what
about more complex conditions in humans? Tests are constantly being
performed to find the next medication that will control the ailment.
Some skeptics, though, will not believe the true results these new drugs
are showing. They simply turn away from the drug and call for its banish
ment. Such a controversial drug is the antidepressant Prozac. The drug
Prozac should continue to be prescribed in dealing with the symptoms of
depression because of the positive effect it already has made in
medicine and society. Further discussion will show how people have
improved their symptoms and devalue the rumors brought about by this new
drug.

Prozac was first invented to cure the symptoms of depression in people.
But how does Prozac accomplish this? It treats depression by affecting
one system of the brain, where a chemical called serotonin is. The drug
causes the serotonin to slow in spaces between the nerve cells, which
makes communication between the nerve cells more efficient. It also has
worked to stop bulimia, panic, obsessivecompulsive disorder and other
conditions. One doctor commented that Prozac <*>. One case study
involved an architect name Sam, who felt the drug made him feel "better
than well". He became more poised, thoughtful, and could concentrate
much easier than before. Most importantly, his symptoms of depression
disappeared.

The drug has also been tested and found safe by all major pharmaceutical
agencies. Patients don't have the dry mouth, constipation, and rapid
heartbeat found in other antidepressants. To scientists, this drug is
viewed to be "clean" because of the specific job it does. It is
different than other moodaltering drugs, such as opium and marijuana,
because its effect is "even and sustained". Patients don't feel the up
and down effect other "street" drugs bring. Says one physician, <*>.
Doctors are also confident because over 8 million people have taken the
drug. The results of the nonaddicting effects and large public usage of
Prozac remain as positive support for the drug.

Not only is the drug medically reliable, it also socially allows people
to interact better in today's world. In "The Personality Pill" Dr Peter
D. Kramer, a physician who treats many patients with the drug, says,
<*>. Kramer talks of a patient named Tess, who after a poor childhood
kept falling into one bad relationship after another. She became, in her
own words, "lethargic and unhappy". Soon after being prescribed with
Prozac, she started to have three dates a weekend. She suddenly regained
the sense of passion and enthusiasm missing in her life. As in the case
with Tess, Prozac has enabled many people to regain their confidence in
society and happily return to their pas social lives.

Questions still arise about anything related to the drug. Some wonder
about earlier reports of Prozac patients committing suicide. This cannot
be cast aside. As Dr Kramer says, <*>. In truth, the few number of
claims made have been highly publicized, and are a minute percentage of
the people who have received the drug. This very low percent can be
verified by looking at the total number of prescriptions filled compared
to patient suicides. An estimated 900 to 950 thousand prescriptions are
filled monthly in the U.S. compared to only a few confirmed Prozac
deaths.


Other critics of Prozac haven't been able to prove the problems are
caused by the drug, rather than the patients' illness. Some patients com
plain feeling "numbed" by the medication. Sam, the architect mentioned
before, felt less obsessed with his work and had fewer "rough edges".
Still, his "quirkiness and inclination for sarcasm vanished," which was
a loss for him. Another of Kramer's patients, a rabbi, claims a great
deal of his energy has recovered, but added, <*>. These slight obstacles
will always be shared by some patients, but should be easily tolerable
compared to the past depression many have suffered through.

In the end, most physicians share a common belief about this
controversial drug. As Dr Daniel Auerbach of the Veterans Health
Administration in Sepulveda, California comments, <*>. Dr Hyla Cass, a
psychiatrist in Santa Monica, California remarks, <*>. In the society we
live in today, what is wrong with making yourself better? If the drug
has proven to be reliable and safe, then we should let the sick make
themselves well again.









































<ICLEUSMRQ0013.1>


In the 1960s Dr Martin Luther King led the civil rights movement. In the
1970s women across America burned their bras as a statement in the
women's liberation movement. Two decades later there is a new battle 
the right for homosexuals to enlist or remain in the military. There are
numerous debates surrounding this issue leaving people to wonder, what
is the right thing to do? The obvious answer may be to ignore sexual
orientation and label it as irrelevant as James M. Wall does in, "A
matter of civil rights", an article appearing in the Christian Century,
allow homosexuals in the military. However, as one reads the article by
E.L. Pattullo entitled, "Why Not Gays in the Military?" which appears in
the National Review, it will be ultimately decided that there should be
a ban gays serving in the military. Pattullo's use of sound reasoning
and his pointing out of the realistic consequences of gays in the
military will make on change their mind. James M. Wall's articles does
not give realistic reasons as to why homosexuals should be allowed to
serve, nor does he look at the possible consequences in the distant
future.

Pattullo's article expresses the need for the military to remain gay
free. The first issue he addresses in, "Why Not Gays in the Military?"
is that of sexuality and the strong feelings associated with it. He does
not place any specific blame on homosexuals. Pattullo merely addresses
the very real concern of sexual feelings that may arise if homosexuals
and heterosexuals share the same barracks. He states that, <*>. It is
very natural to be uncomfortable in the event that you feel you are
constantly being viewed as a potential sex partner. One must consider
what it would be like for one woman to share a barrack with nearly one
hundred men, or vice versa. This would be a very uncomfortable situation
for whomever. The same would go for any heterosexual male or female
placed in the same living space as a homosexual man or woman.

Wall attacks the issue of homosexuals in the barracks with a
lighthearted attitude. In his article he wonders if <*> should be
assigned by the joint chiefs of staff. This statement damages his
argument because the comparison of music taste to concerns of being
viewed as a sex object in the showers cannot be made. The problem of
homosexuals in the military is far more complicated than what Wall is
willing to admit. This is also evident in the way he discusses what
working conditions should be like. He feels that, <*>. How can this be
if there are already concerns throughout the company about behavior in
the barracks?

Pattullo, on the other hand, feels that homosexuals in the military
would destroy the traditional closeknit relationships formed between
the soldiers in the military. Pattullo illustrates this point by
describing the types of love that exist between the members of a
platoon.
<*>
The point that Pattullo makes is very sound. He reasons that without a
feeling of comfort between the members of a troop, there will not be any
unity or sense of cohesion. This is very important in any setting where
teamwork is necessary, especially in the military.

Pattullo also mentions what other problems may arise in the event that
homosexuals are allowed to serve. There would be a real concern of
homosexuals interacting sexually with each other. The military tries
hard enough to separate men and women without having to be concerned
about men in the same barracks being involved with each other. Pattullo
also points out that the lack of, <*>. With Pattullo's argument it can
be seen that if homosexuals are allowed to serve then homosexuality will
be virtually accepted in the military. Therefore, it would be difficult
to control what goes on in the barracks. This would offend many
heterosexuals and result in the disintegration of camaraderie between
the members of the company.

Wall, on the other hand, does not see the point that Pattullo is
addressing. He continues to fall back on the idea that there should be
homosexuals in the military solely to retain the basic civil rights that
everyone is entitled to. Wall feels that, <*>. Sexual discrimination is
already too large of a problem in the military. Why worsen it with the
presence of homosexuals?

Admitting homosexuals in the military is an issue that deserves careful
deliberation. Before reading Pattullo's article it was decided by the
writer of this essay that there was not reason why homosexuals should
not be prohibited from serving in the military. However, Pattullo's
strong and convincing claims has had an affect on the opinions of many
people. The defense of our country is the ultimate goal of our armed
forces. If there is no trust amongst our troops, then how can we, as
civilians, trust in them?





































<ICLEUSMRQ0014.1>

How far would you go to be the best athlete in the world? Some people
would go too far. Steroids and the use of other performance enhancing
drugs are becoming a major problem in today's society. Steroids are
chemical cousins of the hormone testosterone. They promote muscle growth
and increase aggression, spurring athletes to more  strenuous workouts.
The International Olympic Committee has already banned nearly 100
substances. There are two sides to this issue. On one side are chemists
armed with stateoftheart equipment for detecting the use of such
substances. On the other are many athletes determined to use any means
available to enhance their performance and get away with it. Drug
testing of all athletes is ethical and should be mandatory at any given
time to ensure fair competition, protect athletes' health and safety
from the long term effects of steroid usage and prevent drug usage among
student and professional athletes who are regarded as role models.

Many people question whether mandatory drug testing is ethical or if it
is a violation of athletes rights to privacy. Ethics refers to human
conduct with emphasis on the determination of right and wrong. Using
performance enhancing drugs is against the rules of the National
Collegiate Association of Athletes and professional sports associations.
To enforce these rules athletes must be drugtested. As John Chaplin, an
Olympic track official and veteran trackandfield coach pointed out,
the only way to clean up sports is to institute random testing. In the
article "A game of cat and mouse" he stated, <*>. This policy would
include testing in which officials would be permitted to swoop down unan
nounced at U.S. meets and conduct tests. The article "OK to NCAA" states
<*>. It is wrong for athletes to cheat so they can win a gold medal,
achieve a personal record or even win a championship. The importance of
drug testing outweighs the impairment of the right to privacy and there
is no other reasonable alternative. The article also states, <*>. The
article also points that drug testing does not infringe on athletes'
right to privacy because the tests do not come as a surprise. Athletes
are notified in advance that they will be tested. Without drug testing
competition is biased because those using drugs would have an edge over
those who are obeying the rules.

In the article "In Track and Field Time for Naked Truth" Dr Paul
Thompson states, <*>. By using drugs athletes are making the competition
unfair. Dr Gary Wadler agrees, <*>. The only way to put an end to this
problem is to institute mandatory drug testing of all athletes. While
people are worried about whether or not testing is ethical they should
think about their morals. Thompson also points out, <*>. Along with
achieving great athletic performance, athletes who use chemical
substances may also impair their judgement and even shorten their lives.

The side  effects of steroids are devastating. Some include temporary
sterility and breast enlargement in men and irreversible deepening of
the voice in women. Athletes may also experience psychiatric symptoms
ranging from grandiosity to euphoria to delusions and suicidal thoughts.
The pharmacology of athletics states some other serious side effects
such as, <*>. Worst of all, steroid abusers of both sexes are at higher
risk for liver cancer and premature heart disease. What will it take for
athletes to think differently about steroids. Maybe the fact that many
great athletes have died from the long term effects of steroids. On
example is the late football player Lial Alsado. What are fans of great
athletes supposed to think when they see that their role models have
been using steroids.

With all the risks, why do athletes still use steroids? The article "In
Track and Field Time for Naked Truth" explains why. The temptation is
still there because according to Dr Paul Thompson, <*>. It is this
desire to be the best in the world that drives some athletes to use
performance enhancing drugs. Ben Johnson, a world class sprinter, is an
example of an athlete and role model striving to be the best and ended
up using steroids to get there. In the Seoul Olympics of 1988 he won a
100 meter gold medal in 9.79 sec. His fall from grace came almost as
fast, after it was revealed that he had used steroids to achieve his
worldbeating performance. His deception shocked the sports world and
caused the loss of his medal, but it also held out the hope that
athletes tainted by steroid use might finally forsake the drugs that may
believe stimulate muscle growth and enhance strength. By mandatory drug
testing athletes it would lesson and soon even prevent the use of
performance enhancing drugs.

In the article "Check Up or Check Out", from Time magazine it talks
about a meeting in Borlange, Sweden with sports officials from 29
countries. They met to draw up tough drugtesting proposals aimed at
stamping out the use of anabolic steroids by athletes. Adopting these
proposals could lead the way to making the use of steroids by top
ranking athletes virtually impossible. The Borlange group's key proposal
was that random checks for steroid use be carried out during training as
well as actual competition. Refusal to submit to such checks would carry
the same penalties as the discovery of use of any drugs, including
disqualification and longterm bans from competition.

The pros and cons of a drugtesting program invented by The Athletic
Congress are discussed in a different article from Sports Illustrated
titled "Test Case". The program requires that each week 14 athletes,
selected at random from a pool comprising the top 15 Americans from
every track and field event, be tested both for steroids and for drugs
that mask the presence of steroids. The pros are that more athletes
illegally using drugs would be caught however, the cons seem to be a
drawback at the present time. Many of the athletes do not attend the
drug testings for reason like the testing places are too far. In the
future, this testing meathod could be very effective if strickter laws
were enforced.

Each year the field of sports becomes more and more competitive. With
this competitiveness comes the desire to stand out from the crowd and be
the best athlete in the world. With the disappointments athletes face of
not being strong enough or fast enough they turn to drugs to enhance
their performance. This makes competition unfair to those athletes who
do not use drugs. By doing mandatory drugtesting it would not only
ensure fair competition but also protect athletes health and safety from
the long term effects of steroid usage and prevent drug usage among
student and professional athletes who are regarded as role models.













<ICLEUSMRQ0015.1>

The issue involving prayer in public schools has caused conflict to
arrise between two opposing groups know as the Civil Liberties Group and
the Conservative Religious Group. Each of these groups has different
ethical values and beliefs to cause them to back up their own side. The
Civil Liberties Group argues against school prayer. They do this by
stating strongly the constitutional amendment of church and state. They
claim that God cannot be put in or taken out of public schools. They
also bring out the idea of respect from Christian majorities towards
other religions. According to the Conservative Religious Group, prayer
and religion should be brought into public schools for many reasons.
One, is to give students a more thorough education of history and
religion. Another, is the right of freedom of speech. The third reason
is to decrease the new rise in violent crime, divorce and teenage
pregnancies. Although the article, "A Religious Argument Against School
Prayer" gives more supportive reasoning to back up the Civil Liberties
Group than the article, "Prayer in Public Schools, It's Nothing New to
Many" which uses a biased attitude torwads the values and consequences
of prayer in school, they both contain weak solutions, and a third
article titled, "Jefferson Still Lives" gives the best answer to the
situation by giving children a period of silence before class. 

The Conservative Religious Group and the articles, "Prayer in Public
Schools? It's Nothing New for Many" by Peter Applebome and a related
article titled, "Despite Debate in Many U.S. Schools, Prayer has Become
a Part of the Day" by David Klinghoffer, use a biased account and poor
reasoning to create a weaker view torwards the idea of prayer in
schools. One argument from this group is the idea of religion playing an
important role in some education courses. As Klinghoffer states, <*>.
This statement gives a good reason for schools to conatin religious
courses but it does not give ideas on how to get this religion back into
the curriculum.

Their second main point is the constitutional right of freedom of
speech. They claim this by bringing out the event in 1969 where the
Supreme Court ruled that neither <*>. This is a good statement but the
fact that the court ruled that this type of freedom of speech is o.k.
does not mean it would feel the same way about the amendment of church
and state. By giving this quote the author is not stating directly the
relationship between freedom of speech and church and state.

A third reason argued by the Conservative Religious Group is, <*>. This
could have been good evidence if the author had given examples and
reliable accounts as to how this can be related with religion in
schools. Instead he uses fallacy by just stating his opinion and not
giving evidence to ow these problems are related to prayer in schools.
The Conservative Religious Group and these two articles use weak reaons
and biased opinions to create a less factual article.

The article, "A Religious Argument Against School Prayer" by Donald
Shriver and other related articles such as "Religion in the Schools" by
Kenneth Jost give detailed accounts and consequences torward the idea of
prayer in school. The first idea that the Civil Liberties Group brings
up is the amendment of separation of church and state. As Shriver
claims, <*>. Jefferson believed that diversity of creeds and separation
of church from state would actually stengthen religion in America.
According to Civil Liberties members this is true by claiming that, <*>.
This is a good argument by the authors by using statements that back up
their reasoning and supporting their argument.

The second idea is the question, do religious practices like prayer,
church attendance, and bible reading "serve God" and Gods causes in the
world? To Civil Libery Members this is important because of the slogan
many school prayer supporters such as the President state which is, <*>.
According to Civil Liberty Members,  <*>. This quote is stating that you
cannot put God in or take God out of the schools, he is already there.
This is a good use by the author of debating the opposing view with
factual statements.

The third idea stated by the Civil Liberties Group is the theme of
religion and ethics. According to Shriver, <*>. As he states, <*>. Civil
Liberties members claim that <*>. This is good reasoning by the author
as to gaining respect torward the mionorities their feelings about being
trapped by other religions. This can also be related to children from
minority religions in schools. They should not have to take part in a
religion that they do not believe in. The authors of these two articles
and the Civil Liberties group give detailed and unbiased reasoning
against prayer in schools although they could give solutions to the
problem.

Although the second articles gave stronger reasoning than the first,
their ideas did not appeal to me. In my opinion, a third option which is
discussed in the article by Anthony Lewis titles, "Jefferson Still
Lives" is the best solution. The author states, <*>. This gives the best
solution to the problem by giving each child his or her own personal
time to reflect on whatever they please whether it be religious or
otherwise.

This moment of silence will sustain from hurting anyone in a minority
religion. In the article, "Jefferson Still Lives", Gary Baur, a leading
voice of the belief that prayer should be in schools, states, <*>. Lewis
gives an excellent debate to this statement by saying, <*>. This is a
good use by Lewis to take the opposing side and dispute it.

A third reason Lewis brings up is the question, <*>. This is a good
statement by Lewis to show the affects of children if prayer was brought
into schools.

The solution by Anthony Lewis, which is to give students a moment of
silence before class is the best choice for everyone. Lewis gives many
good reasons as to why this is the best solution. It can be used as a
time for personal reflections, prayer, or for whatever children in
public schools wish to use it for.

















16



<ICLEUSMRQ0016.1>

In our nation today, there is an overwhelming number of unsolved ethical
issues. One such is the question of whether or not the death penalty is
needed, or if it will solve any of our criminal problems. In fact,
capital punishment is so highly debated that <*>. Governments are trying
to pass many bills either opposing the death penalty, or supporting it.
Numerous groups are also trying to sway governments into their own
direction. For example, many religious organizations like Presbyterians
for Abolition of the Death Penalty, and The National Interreligious
Task Force are doing what they can to inform the public that we need to
abolish the death penalty. Whereas many politicians, especially Liberal
Democrats, feel that the death penalty is an integral part of the future
wellbeing of America. The sad part of this issue is that the only
reason we are debating over the ethics of capital punishment is because
of the increases crime we face in our world. Over the past years, the
crime rate has continued to increase, especially the rate of murder and
other serious crimes. Thus, when serious criminal cases occur, and the
state that they occur in does not have the death penalty, a debate
occurs over it necessity. (For example, the Jeffrey Dahmer case). Well,
I believe that no matter what the circumstances, there is no need for a
death penalty because it will not stop our criminal problems, it is
immoral, and may even hinder the development of our society.

First of all, the main reason for the death penalty is to punish
murderers or serious criminals in a way that will set an example for
others, and probably cause people to think twice before committing a
serious crime. Basically, some people feel that a strong death penalty
throughout our entire country can stop a large amount of murders. Well
it has been proven through several studies that the death penalty has
not reduced the rate of homicides by any significant number at all. In
1983 a scientist named Forst did one such study, and he concluded that,
<*>. Not only did Forst find that the death penalty did not change the
homicide rate, but he also thought that it may cause more homicides. I
feel that Forst's argument is very logical because if a murderer is
really scared of receiving the death penalty, then he may do anything
possible to keep from being caught, which may include the murder of
anyone who could get him caught. Another scientist, Solomon, also agrees
with Forst's conclusion, but uses different reasoning. In 1975 he
stated, <*>. In other words, Solomon believes some criminals may just
want to die, and then murder so they can end up on death row. He attacks
the death penalty morally too, by revealing that the death penalty shows
to everybody that it is okay to take someone's life to cope with the
pain that they may have caused. In the long run, capital punishment
really does not reduce the crime rate, and may even contribute to more
murders than it stops.

Just like Solomon, many others see the death penalty as immoral, and
therefore feel that it is unneeded. Although, some still believe that
"an eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth" is how our justice system should
work. If somebody makes a horrible mistake of murdering someone else,
then is it moral for the government to turn right around and murder
them. No, to me no murder is right, not even the death penalty. The
writer Jim Gittings agrees with me in his statement <*>. Also, if the
death penalty is really supposed to bring about justice to the victims
of the murder and to society, it really does not accomplish that. To the
victims the murdering of the murderer cannot make up for the loss of a
loved one and will not fully satisfy them. <*>. And to society what does
a serious murder case do besides bring up a moral debate about the death
sentence and give people something to talk about. We have a judicial
system so that we do not have to "do unto others as they've done to us",
because murder, in any form is immoral.

Another reason in which society does not need a death penalty is because
a death penalty really is not "fullproof" and consequently is not the
correct choice for a punishment. First of all, many criminals sentenced
to death can get out because of how much money they have. It has been
proven that many criminals have been able to successfully appeal the
death sentence because of the expensive, good lawyer that they had. Now,
the only reason that they had these lawyers was because of the money
they were able to pay them. Criminals that do not have sufficient funds
for a good lawyer are appointed one by the government, and these lawyers
usually are not as good because they cost far less. <*>. Then, when
criminals do get sentenced to death, they end up waiting in a jammed up
system. <*>. Finally, those who do get sentenced to death may not even
deserve it. A great amount of evidence should be needed to put someone
on death row, but the states really do not require enough. Since they do
not require enough evidence, there have been too many cases in which
someone has been falsely accused and put to death for it. In fact many
people who do support the death penalty, <*>. Even those on the side of
capital punishment acknowledge its flaws. These problems with the
sentencing of the death penalty hinder the judicial system as well as so
ciety, and can be best solved by the repeal of capital punishment. 

Since there is so much crime, especially murder, in our world today,
something needs to be done about it. Education may be the best answer to
our problem, but some people feel that the death penalty can stop
increased crime. In actuality, the death penalty will not solve our
problem, and may cause more problems. In fact some who support the death
penalty may only support it so they can gain political support by
showing that they will "take no prisoners" and be "tough on law and
order". Well let's be tough on law and order by cracking down on
criminals, but not doing it by committing another crime, and murdering
someone because they made a huge mistake.























<ICLEUSMRQ0017.1>

Just before noon in a public elementary school somewhere in the United
States, a fifth grade class is eager to go to lunch. Before lining up in
the routine singlefile order, the daily prayer before lunch must be
said. Hats are removed and hands are folded as the teacher leads the
students through the familiar prayer of thanks and praise. As the
students mumble the memorized lines, a child in the back of the
classroom stares out the window and wonders what the words he is saying
mean. A classmate of his resents the fact that she must pray a prayer
that does not coincide with her religious beliefs. Still another child
murmurs the words automatically as she thinks about what kickball team
she wants to be on during recess.

The scene from above is one that is being heatedly debated around the
country. The issue of prayer in public schools has once again become
controversial even after the 1962 Supreme Court decision that prohibited
prayer in the public school classrooms. Because the dispute centers on
religion and the first Amendment that prescribes freedom of religion,
this issue has attracted two very opposite viewpoints. Proponents of
prayer in public schools believe that a religious infusion is needed to
balance the lack of values and the increasing rate of violence in
society. The opponents hold, however, that prayer in public schools
would destroy the separation of church and state, and that prayer will
not be able to end the ills of society. With the widespread views this
debate creates, many writes have taken it upon themselves to offer their
opinions on the subject. After considering these articles that cover
both sides of the issue, it is obvious that prayer does not belong in
the public school classroom, as the articles that oppose prayer in
public schools refute and weaken considerably the arguments for the
reintroduction of prayer in public schools as a way to cure modern
social ills.

A main claim that the supporters of prayer in public schools point to is
the statistic that, on a regular basis, polls show that 75% or more of
Americans favor the return of prayer to schools. According to the
American Center for Law and Justice, an estimated 12,000 Bible clubs are
at work in the United States public schools. In addition, 177,000
participants belong to Student Venture, an organization that helps to
establish school prayer groups. These numbers, according to the
supporters, are to reflect the desire to return prayer to public schools
and are reason to support its return.

There are some weaknesses in this reasoning. First of all, the statistic
that maintains that 75% of Americans support the return of prayer to
public schools is never accounted for. For all the reader knows, the
polls that are being referred to may have been using a biased population
sample, one that is not representative of the general public.

A second factor to be considered is the alleged 25% that do not want
prayer to be reinstated. Should these students be forced to participate
in prayer that is not in tune with their beliefs? The  Office for
Standards in Education described, <*>. The National Association of
Headteachers agrees that if religion and prayer are instituted in school
activities, <*>. It should be considered that in a situation like this,
students are bound to feel alienated and resentful. This is not a
healthy attitude to be held by 25% of the student body.

A second claim that is made by the proponents of returning prayer to
school is that religion will help offset the moral degeneracy of
society. As the writer of "Say a Little Prayer" states <*>. Another
supporter, Ralph Reed of the Christian Coalition, claims that school
prayer would teach students how to be better citizens. The belief of the
proponents is that reinstituting prayer in schools will be able to right
the wrongs in society.

This claim is quite weak and is refuted by the opposing side. To begin
with, correlation is not causation. There is no evidence to support that
the drop in religious intrest was the reason for the development of
social ills. Reed also does not give any indication of how prayer will
make students into better citizens. Are his readers just supposed to
assume that saying the words of a prayer will automatically make both
the students and society "better"? Anna Quindlen deals with this claim
in her editorial for the New York Times. She believes that the
reintroduction of prayer in schools is an attempt to revive the America
of the past that is <*>. Quindlen holds that returning to a time when
guns were not brought to school, disobedience was rare, and families
were a functional unit, also means returning to a period in which,
<*>.It is not feasible to claim that while there was prayer in schools,
society's members were a healthy, functioning group of people.

The prayer that has been proposed to be used in schools is the
following: <*>. Because the prayer is nonsectarian and does not contain
any material that would be offensive to students of various backgrounds,
it is seen by the proponents as the perfect solution.

This prayer according to opponents is anything but the perfect solution.
The prayer is void of any feeling or sincerity  As Klinghoffer writes,
<*>. Anna Quindlen agrees as she remembers her experience of having to
pray in school. She recalls, <*>. For those who have fought so hard to
reinstitute prayer in schools, to be satisfied with a fabricated string
of words seems contradictory to their beliefs that prayer should be a
meaningful expression for the students.

Klinghoffer also claims that when people try to inspire children through
bland and meaningless prayers, the children lose interest. He supports
this with the following: <*>.

He also includes the example of the Episcopalians who replaced the
"beautiful" 1928 Book of Common Prayer with the "anodyne" version
written in 1979. The number of Episcopalians has been in decline since
the early 1960's. Klinghoffer offers this as an explanation, <*>. In The
Churching of America 17761790, a book by Roger Finke and Rodney Stark,
the authors claim that as the church compromises with the "modern" world
and makes less demands on the parishoners so that they are not offended,
churches fail to inspire congregants and eventually lose them.

Another piece of evidence that Klinghoffer uses to support his claim
that nonsectarian prayers are not the solution is his own personal
experience. The Jewish church did away with the old prayer book, the Sid
dur, in favor of the Gates of Prayer instituted in 1975. Klinghoffer
remembers, <*>. He also points out that the only Jewish denomination
that is able to retain its young members is Jewish Orthodoxy.

With these numerous examples, it is clear that although supporters of
prayer in public schools are trying to inspire youth to return to
religion and the morals that go along with religion, they would actually
be doing the students a great disservice by forcing a bland prayer upon
them. As the above cases illustrate, the prayer that is proposed to be
said in schools may have the opposite effect than what is intended.
Students may be turned off to religion for good.

The writer of "Mississippi Prays" states that supporters of school
prayer are not a threat. <*>. This writer is looking for this respect to
be the return of prayer into the classroom in order for students to pray
together.

This writer and those who hold the same belief must realize that
concessions cannot be made for one group at the sake of another group.
Just as students need the freedom for religion, those who do not believe
in the same religion deserve freedom from religion. The most acceptable
solution is to allow students to form prayer and Bible groups that could
meet before and after school on school grounds. This would allow
students to join these groups at their own discretion, not out of
requirement. It would still provide the oppotunity to gather together,
and would allow the students to form various groups for different
religions. It has already been seen that when there was prayer in
schools, there existed social ills as serious as the ones that exist
today. It is obvious that required prayer would not eliminate the
problems. On the other hand, with youngsters willingly and
enthusiastically participating in religious activities, it would be more
likely that they would take it upon themselves to help correct the
problems that they see in the world around them.

Along with the freedom that American citizens have for the freedom of
religion, they also have the right to be free from religion being
imposed upon them. This forced participation in religion would be the
case if prayer were to be reinstituted in the public schools. The
articles that support the return of prayer in public schools contain
weaknesses that are successfully refuted in the opposing arguments. One
can conclude from the strong, wellordered arguments that prayer should
not be a part of the daily schedule in public schools as a means of
trying to correct social problems, but should be offered outside of the
classroom for those who desire it.
























<ICLEUSMRQ0018.1>
One of the most recent popular debates in the United States government
involves moral values. In the last presidential election, George Bush
professed that our country needed to strengthen its moral values. Newt
Gingrich, the Speaker of the House, now proclaims, <*>, as is stated in
the November 22, 1994 issue of the New York Times. Mr Gingrich wants to
mandate a time at the beginning of each school day when students can
recite a prayer written by the government if they are of a religion.
Supposedly, this would promote moral values i children and possibly make
our society a more moral environment, but why should the government be
so concerned about religious prayer in public schools? Time for prayer
in public schools should not be instituted in the classrooms during
school hours, because religion is imposed on the children who will
recite the prayer with little interest to actually pray.

Parents are the ones who should teach their children the moral values of
their religion. Before children begin to attend school, they learn moral
values from their parents. The parents are the first ones to expose
children to their religion. As children grow up, they learn morals from
their religious community. For example, young Jewish children will learn
much of their religion from parents, synagogue members, and rabbis. They
do not need extra time in public school to pray. They have plenty of
time after school to pray individually, with their family, or with their
community. In the December 7, 1994 issue of the New York Times, Anna
Quindlen, author of the article "Lead Us Not", states <*>. She is
stating that school is not the place for one to seriously and
thoughtfully pray. The government needs to consider that public schools
are supposed to focus on teaching their students the prescribed
curriculum and not any type of religious implications. Instituting
prayer does not mean that children will take this prayer time in public
schools seriously.

Some people state that the loss of prayer in public schools has caused a
lack of moral thought and therefore, increased crime. Children are under
academic stress at the beginning of the day. When school begins,
students are much more concerned about the test that they will take or
the homework that they will need to finish just before class than
thoughtfully saying a prayer each morning. There is no time for
meditation in the mind of most students. The article "Church and State"
in the April 4, 1994 issue of the Wall Street Journal states, <*>. Does
this means that since thoughtful prayer is abolished from public schools
that crime has broken out? Since students have always been under
academic stress, there is a little effect on the thoughts of most
students. Although there is some connection between the rise in crimes
and the lack of prayer in public schools, the factor is too minute to be
accounted for, because students learn their morals from parents and the
community.

An opponent of my argument could claim that if one lived in a negative
community with parents that did not teach proper morals, then they would
still have some time to pray to themselves each day in public school to
make them better, more thoughtful persons. A person in this situation
should go to people who can help them, such as those of a religious
order. Communities have many facilities, such as youth organizations,
that can bring forth personal, moral education. The job of the
government does not include setting religious morals for children,
especially when there are children who do not understand many morals and
need personal guidance to learn them. Students may find someone to show
them morals, but usually, children entrapped in a negative situation may
not know to look for outside help. For this reason, the government
should have public schools institute religious activities after class
periods are finished, so that students could practice their religion if
they wanted to. This would not be a difficult or controversial activity
to establish. The article "Say a Little Prayer" in the November 22, 1994
issue of the Wall Street Journal states, <*>. Since a religious activity
was permitted to occur on public school grounds after classes finished,
there should not be a great controversy over whether students could
utilize time after school to form a prayer group, a Bible or Koran study
group. William Muir, author of the book, Prayer in the Public Schools,
observes, <*>. By instituting activities for prayer and worship after
school, the students would be able to freely express their religion. The
majority of communities would, indeed, find agreement in creating after
school religious activities. Lawmakers would not encounter a large
controversy over religious activities after school.

If the government actually writes a universal prayer for students to
recite, there will be no meaning in the prayer to those who recite it.
According to the author of the December 7, 1994 issue of the New York
Times, she states, <*>. If we institute a prayer time or even a silent
time there can be no assurance that students will utilize this period to
reflect or to say the prayer with meaning. Students will not become
better citizens if they have a time for reflection in public schools.
Obviously, the government will create a generic prayer so that nobody
should be offended. How could there possibly be any thoughtfulness in a
prayer designed to be so general? To attain a good idea of what the
government prayer would probably be, the December 27, 1994 article in
the New York Times, "Give Us This Day Our Daily Palabum," states <*>.
The thought conveyed in this prayer is shallow in meaning. The
previously stated source is quoted saying, <*>. By reciting a prayer
like the latter, the students will miss out from more of their academic
time which will further degrade the already decadent public school
system.

There can never be a freedom of expression if the government decides to
create a prayer to be recited in every public school. Ralph Reed of the
Christian Coalition professed in the November 22, 1994 issue of the Wall
Street Journal, <*>. The previous statement is a contradiction, because
the institution of prayer in public schools would, in fact, hinder the
student's ability to freely express their faith. Even is there is a
silent time students will learn nothing if they are not instructed on
how to pray or if they reject the idea of prayer time. Prayer is a time
to reflect, praise, or forgive, and a classroom is not the proper place
or time to seriously take into consideration the healing of the soul. If
the teachers cannot say anything about religion to their students
encouraging them to solemnly pray, then students will not pray since
there will be no reason to take this mental action.

Prayer in public schools should not be instituted since people would
become angered by the breaking of our right to the freedom of religion.
Creating a standard prayer is an adverse proposal since a great
controversy exists over the topic, and the establishment of a prayer
would impose religion on those students that do not believe in God. The
majority would simply receive a prayer that would pertain to them only.
In a society that professes racial and religious tolerance, a set prayer
in public schools would definitely be a large step away from our
professed ideal. The role of government is not to bring religion into
public schools, because they have no right to do this. Prayer is a
solemn and personal reflection which should not be imposed by the United
States government.





<ICLEUSMRQ0019.1>

There are many dilemmas that humans must face every day. Some of them
easily justified, and some are not. These dilemmas can range from a
simple act of choosing which friends side to take in a disagreement, or
something more serious, like a priest giving up his reconciliation oath
and handing over a confidential confession of a murderer to the police.
We make most of these decisions based on our values and beliefs. One's
values and beliefs tend to stem from their religious background or the
morals and ethics on which they were raised. It is these ethics that
contribute to the majority of our decision making tactics. When forming
a decision, based on ethics, we must be careful to determine which side
is morally correct.
A dilemma in which morals have come up more often than not is the case
for animal rights. Should these animals be tested for the protection of
human lives, or more importantly, what gives us the right to test these
animals? Now, in the Bible, it says that humans were to have <*>. What
better of an authority figure than God, could give us this right.
Animals were put on earth for humans to do with as they please, as long
as we did not take advantage of this gift. I believe animal testing in
most cases is trying to save people's lives, one way or the other. The
decision must be made that a human's life is more important than an
animal's life. Animal testing is a crucial part of our society and must
go on, if human's want to continue as the superior species. An example
of this, is a three year old, named Timmy Baker has a heart attack from
a disease he possibly contracted from eating an undercooked hamburger.
He is not responding to resuscitation efforts and his doctor, Dr Michael
McManus, decides to give him the epinephrine drug. The dosage
recommended by the medical association does not work, but Dr McManus has
heard of the research done by Dr Traystman. In research done by
Traystman, pigs are electronically subjected to heart attacks,
resuscitated, and then given a dose of the drug epinephrine. This drug
is used to help revive heart attack victims while simultaneously
preventing brain damage from occurring. He also conducts tests
determining whether additional doses of the medication can help a
suffering patient. Dr McManus injects additional doses of epinephrine
into Timmy following the research done by Dr Traystman. In doing this Dr
McManus saves Timmy's life and sends him home six weeks later, a
perfectly healthy boy.

Animal testing accounts for a substantial part of research today, both
in commercial and medical testing. The number of animals involved
reflects this point. Seventeen to twentytwo million animals are killed
in research labs every year. There are many advantages to being able to
experiment drugs on animals before actually administering them to
humans. Do these advantages give humans the ethical right to cause pain
and suffering on animals for their benefit? Is it ethical to sacrifice
the animals so mankind can live in comfort? These questions are asked
everyday in the minds of animal lovers, researchers, and animal right
activists. They are the basis for the great controversy over animal
experimentation. To discuss this issue, the idea of what is ethical and
unethical needs to be discussed. For something to be ethical, the person
it actively concerns must believe that it is morally correct. On the
other hand, when something is unethical, the party activity involved
does not agree morally with it. This leads to the point that animal
rights activists try focus on. 

<*> states Herbert Waddams, protester for animal rights. Animal rights
activists believe that it is unethical to inflict pain on animals. They
base this argument of experience. Personal human experience takes effect
in that humans, as part of nature, try to avoid pain. We center our
lives around many principles. One of which is to  make our lives as pain
less and comfortable as possible. Pain is considered to be evil and in
inflicting it on animals, we are said to be evil. Every creature, human
or not, has an interest in avoiding suffering. While animals my not be
conscious of their interests, activists believe that they should still
be given equal consideration. One particularly painful test is the
Draize eye Irritancy Test, where chemicals are squirted into a rabbits
eye to see if it causes blindness. How can this be ethical if it is
known that there is pain being implemented on the animals?

Animal researchers believe that the benefits of animal testing outweigh
the harm and pass the research off as ethical. They claim that the
amount of information found by testing animals could be discovered by no
other method. While Dr Traystman was experimenting with the epinephrine,
he was under constant pressure from animal rights activists. Thank God
for little Timmy that Traystman continued his experiments, for without
those experiments Timmy may have been left with permanent brain damage.
The testing may have killed some pigs, but at least one little boy's
life and perhaps many more will have been saved.

There are also examples of where a lack of animal testing comes back to
haunt humans. The FDA prohibited the sale of thalidomide, a medicine
aides in the healing off birth defects, in the U.S. because of
insufficient animal testing. Had they tested this drug on more animals,
perhaps many children born with deformations could be living happy,
normal lives today.

Animal researchers argue that it is necessary for the testing of animals
to progress to insure that products and methods are safe for humans. It
is their belief that <*>. Animals are needed to teach medical students
techniques in surgery, giving drugs, and taking blood. Dr Traystman
argues that practicing on living organisms is essential. <*>. While
animal rights activists are attacking the researcher and their centers
for causing animals to suffer, the research is actually helping to
eliminate human suffering. 

There are some experiments on animals that could be eliminated. On
animal experiment, labeled as evil and inhumane, included the testing of
over one hundred and fifty dogs with electric currents. The dogs were
strapped to hammocks and given approximately sixtyfour painful shocks
lasting five seconds each. While this seemed extremely sadistic, it
helped with many human breakthroughs about depression. This depression
does not really classify as human pain and discomfort. In this type of
testing, the benefit to humans does not substantially outweigh the pain
of the animals. This sector of animal testing could be avoided.

The recent outcry against animal testing has resulted in many changes in
the living conditions of animals. This turnabout is an effort to make
animal research appear to be more ethical to animal rights activists. Dr
Raystman's piglets live in ideal living conditions and are more closely
monitored than most of the patients in the hospitals. The pigs fill the
room with oinks and grunts as though they are living on a farm. <*>,
says Dr Traystman. Only these piglets won't ever return to the farm,
they are loaded onto crates and sent upstairs to be "sacrificed" in the
name of science.

Animal researches also argue that if research was to be banned, where
would the line be drawn? Lions, pigs, dogs, and monkeys are all animals,
but so are viruses and bacteria and other single cell organisms. These
are all beings and have been used in research for years, but would a ban
on animal testing end this testing too? This could lead to enormous
setbacks in science.

Animals are being killed in every part of the world today. They are
killed for hunting, bullfighting, cock fighting, and other animal sports
in the name of entertainment. These methods aren't under the same contro
versy as testing and testing is for the good of humans.

While the Animal Rights coalition is aiming for the total elimination of
the use of animals, it is impossible to do at this time. Right now there
is simply no alternative to the testing, and research is too important
to give up. Allen Bromey, White House assistant to the president for
Science and Technology, said that he is worried about attempts to ban
animal testing <*>. As said at the beginning of the paper, we must
continue the testing in order to insure the safety of humans. After all,
who's life is more sacred, the life of a three year old boy, or a pig?











































<ICLEUSMRQ0020.1>

The score is 6870, Stanford leading Tennessee. There is 30 seconds left
in the final half of the women's championship game. Tennessee has
possession of the ball. Stanford calls a timeout to prepare defensive
strategies. The ball comes down the court. Tennessee uses precise ball
handling skills and looks for that one final shot. Tennessee's Passion
Thompson sees the opening and lines up. It's going...going... All of a
sudden the screen switches to the men's game, supposeively following the
women's game. The viewers have to wait until the eleven o'clock news to
find out if Passion made that final shot. Obviously the women's
championship is not as important as watching the men tipoff. Once again
the women are put behind the men in the world of college athletics. What
ever happened to Title IX, guaranteeing equal sporting opportunities for
male and female athletes? Although this may be a hypothetical situation,
it shows the point that women athletes are still being treated as
secondclass citizens in comparison with the men. I believe that college
women's basketball teams should not be discriminated against and be
given the same respect, rights, and opportunities that the men's teams
receive, instead of always receiving the lower end of the totem pole.

The popularity of women's basketball is on the rise. For the women's
championship competition last year it was said that <*>. But many agree
that the game was so well noticed because it is so rare to see a women's
game on television. The federal law known as Title IX was supposed to
enforce the equality for men and women athletics in colleges and other
levels of competition. But so far the only improvement has been in the
players themselves, so <*>, and a gained sense of respect which all
women athletes deserve.

Respect is not an easy thing to accomplish. Being a talented basketball
player and being women does not seem to mix in the eyes of some people.
There are still people out there that believe women are not feminine
because of their athletic ability. They don't see women as athletes but
as sex objects (at least we don't belong in the kitchen anymore). This
claim is supported by Linnea Smith, the wife of North Carolina's men's
basketball coach. She shows how women are being degraded through the
publications of the Sports Illustrated swimsuit edition. She compares
the lack of coverage of female athletes to the overwhelming responses to
the swimsuit issue. <*>. Some may argue that the women in the magazines
are better to look at than those on the court. But players are not
asking for a comparison of looks, but for a sense of respect as a women.

Another argument against women athletes is the claim that <*>. This
statement was taken from information that there are not as many men
competing as women, and they tend not to take competition as serious as
men. These claims are very weak. It is not considered that maybe the
reason why there are fewer women athletes would be because there are not
as many sports offered to them as there are for men. The lack of
interest is also proved to be untrue by the rising statistics in women's
participation and increase in talent. Pat Summit, Tennessee's women's
basketball coach, says <*>. This reflects the fact of the rising
participation and interest of women players, not only at the college
level, but at younger ages also. 

When compared to the men's basketball teams at many colleges and
universities it is easy to notice that the two are treated quite
differently. Men's teams have better equipment, nicer and newer
uniforms, and upgraded facilities. <*>. They play their games in large
sports centers with television crews, and halftime shows. They attend
<*>, which is just another time to show off their prestige. Women on the
otherhand take all the handmedowns. They squish into old gym
facilities, and struggle with their low budget to keep update equipment.
Their lucky to hold a game in civic centers, and rarely do you see any
coverage of women's basketball on television. Even in the newspapers
<*>. But one thing that women have that men lack is their perspective of
the game. They can't be playing for the prestige, or for their future as
a pro because it is not offered. They play with a seriousness and
dedication that brings a new perspective to the game of basketball. They
work just as hard and sweat just as much for nothing more than their
love for the game.

Colleges may argue why they should give women's basketball more money
for better equipment, facilities, and scholarships when the women aren't
a big  money maker and don't bring prestige to their school. <*> But
this all seems to be just a big excuse. <*>. Money is being wasted on
men's teams that could be going to good use in helping to equalize
opportunities. Many men's teams stay at hotels before home games and are
given steak dinners the night before. Almost every player is on a full
athletic scholarship and are offered special housing arrangements. Money
is also wasted on the recruitment process. <*>. 

By treating the men's and women's basketball teams equally would be
bringing in added pressures on the women. Many coordinators fell that
these added pressures would bring additional problems to the program.
<*>. Mr Roberts, Tulanes faculty athletic representative in the NCAA,
says <*>. Does this mean that women shouldn't be given the chance to
excel just because the men screwed things up first? According to women's
rights advocates <*>. Because the men's teams serve as the only role
models, women have a better chance of avoiding many of the mistakes made
by the men teams. <*>. Already women have been able to avoid some of the
problems the men have faced. <*>. Also women have little to look forward
to after college, in the sense of playing a professional sport, so even
with added pressures their focus and concentration on academics would
not be affected.

Women's basketball is only one of the many women's sports struggling to
gain equality in athletics. The list could go on and examples of
inequality could become numerous, but there is no sense in doing so as
long as one can realize the struggle women athletes face every time they
walk into a gym, sit in a boat, or pick up a bat. Women are fighting to
gain the acceptance they deserve, which could be a harder task than
winning the national championship. But until women are given the same
respect, rights and opportunities as men's teams, they will continue to
be looked upon and treated as secondrate.













<ICLEUSMRQ0021.1>

AIDS is spreading at an enormously fast rate among Americans. It is an
especially large concern for the young adults of today. In fact,
according to the Centers for Disease Control, <*>. The sheer size of
this problem is what prompted Chancellor Joseph Fernandez to develop a
plan to combat this horrible epidemic. Under Mr Fernandez's plan, all
120 public high schools in New York City would have staff volunteers
hand out condoms along with a booklet explaining their use to any
student that wanted them. Although this plan has received much
criticism, the distribution of condoms to sexually active teens in high
school is a step which needs to be taken in order to combat the spread
of the disease called AIDS.

A program like the one suggested for New York City by Chancellor Joseph
Fernandez is very new and different compared to anything proposed
previously to help combat the AIDS epidemic. Because of this, it has
been met with great opposition. One of the main objections to his
proposal is that it encourages and condones sexual promiscuity. Many
parents believe that condom distribution undercuts schools' unstated
purpose of teaching values. Many religious leaders object to the plan on
religious grounds to premarital sex and believe that the schools should
steer away form promiscuous sexual conduct. Dr Irene Imellizzeri, a
psychologist, <*>. In response to this Mr Fernandez replied <*>. 

A growing body of research and the experience of AIDS educators suggests
that condom distribution does in fact decrease sexual activity. These
educators have found that condom availability, when combined with AIDS
education, can delay and discourage casual sexual activity. Researchers
at the John Hopkins Medical School conducted an AIDS education program
in Baltimore that included condom distribution in a high school. The
results they received consisted of <*>. Other studies in progress are
finding similar results. Paul Epstein, the author of the article
"Condoms In Schools: The Right Lesson", also found in his interviews
with adolescents and college students that the presence of condoms makes
them more wary of casual sex, more conscious of the epidemic and more
serious about their own risk. The same article also states, <*>. This
leads one to believe that if condoms were more readily available,
students would be more apt to practice safer sex.

Another criticism of Mr Fernandez's plan is that schools should be
teaching students about abstinence rather than freely giving them
condoms. The only sure way to avoid infection is abstinence and this is
the message that parents, educators and religious leaders want sent to
teenagers. These people argue that there is evidence to prove that the
goal of abstinence is realistic. In fact, <*>. However, sexual
abstinence is not an attractive option for most students. Almost all
existing sex and AIDS education classes stress chastity, yet half the
nation's high school girls are sexually active; 16% have had four or
more partners. According to Time, <*>. This shows that the idea of
abstinence is a mere fantasy. School officials argued that students were
having sex whether the city liked it or not and that the debate was
really over saving lives. The distribution of condoms in schools would
help protect these already sexually active teens. For the vast number of
teenagers who are going to engage in sex no matter what they are taught
in school, abstinence is going to do no good. These students need
knowledge and skills to protect themselves and their partners. This
means that explicit instruction in what types of sex are most risky and
how to reduce risk by using condoms is necessary. Studies have been done
to prove that such instruction works. According to an analysis of a 1988
national survey of adolescent male, <*>.

The final argument against condom distribution in schools is concerned
with the dependability of condoms. Some oppose distributing condoms
because they say it will mislead students into believing there is such a
thing as "safe sex". As stated in Time, <*>. To counteract this argument
the March 1989 Consumer Report found that only 1 in 65 condoms breaks
during vaginal intercourse and only 1 in 105 during anal intercourse.
Epstein writes, <*> This evidence should be reason enough to make
condoms readily available to sexually active teens in high schools. If
condoms are our only means of protection against this horrible disease,
than anyone who engages in sexual activities should have easy access to
them. Having condoms readily available in high schools simply means that
sexually active teens will better be able to protect themselves and
their partners from AIDS.

As of now, there is no evidence available concerning how effective the
distribution of condoms in schools is in decreasing the rate in which
AIDS is spreading because the plan has only been in effect for such a
short time. However, the refutals of arguments presented here should be
reason enough to be supportive of the idea. As of now, condoms are the
only means to prevent AIDS from spreading among sexually active people.
Therefore, by distributing them in our high schools, students will be
better able to protect themselves and their partners. Robert Rygor's
words are fitting for those people who are against the idea. Mr Rygor,
who has AIDS, states, <*>.
































<ICLEUSMRQ0022.1>


Forty years ago, starting the day off in a public school often meant
reciting the pledge of allegiance and a group prayer. Today, the
American flag garners little attention and a public prayer contradicts
constitutional law. But why does praying in public schools receive such
a negative reputation? There is a strong movement in the United States
to bring back prayer to the schoolhouse. The argument used to support
the use of prayer in public schools, however, relies too heavily on
shaky speculation, fallacies, and fanaticism for effectiveness. Those
who oppose prayer in public schools focus on fairness and equality to
everybody rendering their argument much more convincing and acceptable.

An easy claim to make, and one that frequently appears in arguments for
the use of prayer in public school, states that <*>. This may seem like
an encouraging thought but it nevertheless displays naïveté and wishful
reasoning. A prayer alone cannot subdue major societal problems. Trying
to get a troubled youth out of a gang for example, with a prayer in
school compares to trying to extinguish a burning house with a thimble
full of water. It is just not enough to be effective. A thorough
religious awakening may help alleviate significant problems that plague
youth but a daily prayer in school hardly qualifies as this.

Also, a side overlooked by supporters of prayer in public schools points
out that <*>. This fact strengthens the argument for not allowing prayer
in public schools. Supporters often point to the fact that teen
pregnancy, violence, and drug abuse among youths is increasing since the
ban of school prayer. These facts do not accurately show that prayer
lead to moral virtue. Too many uncontrolled variables, like an increase
in broken homes and violence on television, may distort results. During
the time when prayer existed in public schools moral tarnishes such as
segregation, lynchings, and the oppression of women blemished society.
It appears as though America has made gains in moral awareness. In
short, because no data shows that prayer actually causes a better
educational or social environment there is no reason to allow for its
inclusion into the public school.

A common strategy used by supporters of the movement to reinstate prayer
into the public school classroom attempts to project the ban as a
religious straitjacket. The ban, according to Republican state senator
Mike Gunn, amounts to <*>. This view holds no validity. By blanketing
all students in America as Christians, a large part of the religious
population evaporates. Religious groups that do not accept or openly
oppose the ideals of Christianity would face an unfair influence by
prayer in public schools. A public prayer would in fact constrict the
morals of any student who does not believe in God or may have an
alternate view of the concept of God. The "Christian commitment" would
only nullify legitimate values and beliefs that have equal right for
respect.

Opponents of prayer in public schools adopt an attitude that carefully
considers the individual beliefs of students. In order to allow all
students to retain and establish personal conviction, <*>. A prayer on
behalf of an entire student population, in essence, proclaims that one
idea of a supreme being is correct or more important than another.
Students who hold alternate beliefs would face apostasy in the
classroom, sacrificing morals for education. Therefore, the only logical
and fair answer would result in not allowing prayer to influence
students in any way in the public school system.

In an attempt to get prayer back into the classroom, supporters claim
that praying allows <*>. However, allowing schoolchildren to believe in
God does not justify subjecting others to the same belief with a public
prayer. A prayer projected to a student population discounts the rights
of those who earnestly do not accept the concept of a supernatural
being. Forbidding a prayer in a public school does not discourage any
belief system nor does it endorse any particular religious idea. The
right of religious freedom that a prayer would supposedly perpetuate in
actuality infringes upon it in its most fundamental definition.

The concept of God is not discourage in a public school. Similarly,
praying on school grounds is not a crime. The laws of the United States
<*>. Students do not have to leave their religion and beliefs at the
front door of the schoolhouse. If a student has the desire to pray at
any moment during the school day he or she should not encounter any
determent. Only when students (or faculty) force any students to join in
the prayer does it become a problem. The act of trying to force an
unwilling person to digest the religious philosophy of another may lead
to an uncomfortable educational setting that would hinder learning and
social growth.

Prayer in public schools may continue to gain more popularity in the
United States. Popularity, though, does not constitute righteousness.
Subjecting students who have nonconventional beliefs to a
discriminating prayer causes more harm than benefit. The phrase "public"
schools signifies that members of society should have the right to use
the facilities without facing a constant threat to their morals or
beliefs. Because America's vast religious diversity and the lack of
apparent good resulting from discouraging religion diversity, public
schools need to remain free of public prayer.





























<ICLEUSMRQ0023.1>

Aids is the most common disease of our world today. It's true that it
can be transmitted in a variety of ways, but none of these involve
casual contact. In fact, nearly all instances in which AIDS can be
transmitted involved a rather intimate relationship, whether that be
between two sexual partners, or a mother and child. The instances of
people acquiring AIDS through blood transfusions has been so greatly
reduced, that it has nearly been eliminated. Despite the very specific
instances in which a person can contract AIDS, many people are being
discriminated against in the job market, in trying to receive health
care, and in applying for, or maintaining insurance coverage because
they have AIDS. We as a society need to start viewing these people as
victims of a deadly, and fatal disease, rather than as criminals, or
outcasts of society. It is morally and legally wrong for people with
HIV, or AIDS to be discriminated against by employers and insurance
companies simply on the basis that they are afflicted with the disease.
One can conclude from the evidence that will be shown here that this
kind of discrimination is happening, and that it is in fact wrong, both
legally and morally. The opposition offers a weak argument that the
rights of employers and insurance companies should be paramount to the
rights of people who are afflicted with AIDS, when it comes to deciding
who and who not to hire, or who and who not to insure. One will also
clearly be able to conclude that this is in fact a fallacy that defies
moral and legal standards.

AIDS as a disease is actually relatively young, and therefore is not
fully understood. We know how people can contract the disease, and we
know the inevitable effects of this horrible illness when someone does
contract it. However in the short time that HIV and AIDS have been
around hundreds, perhaps even thousands, have been denied a job, have
been denied health insurance, and worst of all have been denied their
dignity. A shining example of this type of behavior is the story of Mark
Woodley. His story sounds something like this:
<*>.

Mr Woodley was just an architect who found great joy working at Macy's
as a Santa Claus, Macy's trademark of the holidays. As stated above,
when he returned the following year to reapply, he wrote down the two
drugs on his application. What happened next was quite predictable. As
David Margolick of the New York Times put it, <*>.

Macy's tried to compensate by offering Mr Wookley a job as a Santa
Supervisor, they just simply did not want an HIV positive person coming
in contact with the general public. Mr Woodley expressed his feelings
about the outrageously discriminatory action by saying, <*>. Nothing
could have been further from the truth. So there stood Mark Woodley, a
martyr to the AIDS community, ousted by corporate America, in its
ongoing quest to promote image above real people. In a final act of
crusading, Mr Woodley wrote a  letter to the CEO at Macy's. A section of
that letter read as follows, <*>. They backed this man into a corner,
and left him no alternatives. He was discriminated against, and yet
nothing more ever came of the whole ordeal. If the issue had been race,
or sex oriented, it would have reached the Supreme Court. But because
the claimant had A AIDS, he had to fight his battle alone, and sadly, he
lost.

The incident at Macy's is not isolated. Discrimination is practiced
against people with AIDS in other fields too. Ron Lentz, a 35year old
nurse was fired from a job only 3 weeks after being hired when the
hospital he worked for found out that he had AIDS. David Allen, a spokes
person for the hospital, feigned innocence on the hospital's part, and
gave their reason for firing Mr Lentz as <*>. Where is it written that
employees must disclose the nature of any and all of their health
problems upon being hired? Especially when there is little or no risk of
passing the disease to someone else.

A final, and rather important example of AIDS discrimination in the work
place was in Valhalla, New York. A pharmacist who was HIV positive
applied for a job at the Westchester Medical Center. The hospital agreed
to hire him, if he would accept certain limitations upon his job. These
included not being able to prepare intravenous prescriptions due to the
fact that they thought he could pass the disease to the patients buying
these prescriptions. The pharmacist argued that this was discrimination,
and did not take the job. He sued the hospital, and won a judgment
allowing him a job there with no restrictions. If the hospital did not
comply, the federal government was going to withhold $107 million in
Medicare and Medicaid payments, until they chose to comply. The
pharmacist was quoted as saying this about being discriminated against
because he had AIDS, <*>. 

The predominant argument of employers and insurance companies who are
perpetrating this discrimination is that people with AIDS present a
health risk to other employees, or customers. Some insurance companies
also view AIDS patients as a bad investment, because generally when the
virus has progressed to fullblown AIDS, the diagnosis is usually about
2 years or less to live. While it cannot be argued that, speaking in
business terms, an AIDS patient is a "bad investment", they present very
little risk healthwise to coworkers or customers. It is also
reasonable to say that even though a person afflicted with AIDS may not
be the most lucrative investment, we are still talking about a living
and breathing human being with physical, emotional, and in this case,
financial needs. Not all insurance companies who represent a person with
AIDS will wind up paying for expensive treatments or hospice car, and
this should be taken into account. As far as the healthrisk goes, they
are absolutely wrong. In the case of the pharmacist from Valhalla, New
York, Linda Richardson wrote after the court's ruling, <*>. According to
Nora Underwood, in a 1988 Maclean's article, <*>. In that same article,
Norwood writes that David Allen, Toronto Western's Hospital's
spokesperson, said, <*>.
This is more than enough proof that HIV, and later AIDS, is not, and
cannot be transmitted through casual contact. Therefore, coworkers,
patients, friends, family, or anyone else in close contact with the
victim is in danger of contracting the disease from everyday
occurrences, or contact. The employers and insurance companies' argument
is entirely unfounded. They have nothing to stand on.

The problem with discrimination in the workplace isn't always
necessarily financial. The pharmacist who was not hired by Westchester
Medical Center illustrated this best by talking about how discrimination
was the last nail in his coffin. Society is shutting the lid on these
people before they die. We already know that it is inevitable that when
someone becomes infected with HIV, it is going to develop into AIDS, and
they are going to die. The amount of time they have left to live varies
from case to case, but the least we owe these people is the respect and
courtesy due a dying person in their final fays. A cancer victim is
applauded for hanging on from day to day, and is complemented on the
strength they show in the face of adversity. But society would just as
soon bury someone with AIDS alive, and get it over with. What is the
difference? What makes the other terminal patients so righteous? Nothing
should, and nothing does. People with HIV or AIDS are not the walking
dead, they are the fragile living, and should be treated accordingly.

The government has recognized that a person with AIDS has a disability
much like someone who is paralyzed has a disability. This is not true,
but unfortunately it's the only way to legally keep employers and
insurance companies from willfully discriminating against these people.
We know that discrimination is occurring, and we know that it is both mo
rally, and legally wrong, by the Americans With Disabilities Act of
1990. The primary argument for keeping infected people out of the work
force is that they are believed to present a healthrisk to other
employees, or customers. One can clearly conclude from the evidence that
this is not true. We societies of the world must expand our awareness,
and our tolerance for those who are different. A social death need not
precede the imminent physical death of these victims, so let us begin to
do what is fair, legal, and right.










































<ICLEUSMRQ0024.1>

To many, just the word orphanage has a dark ring to it. Those who do
feel that way see pictures of Oliver Twist or Little Orphan Annie in a
dreary prison for children. While over the past century, there have been
poorly run orphanages, the vast majority were a pleasant place for
orphans to grow up. In the past decade, the question of whether
orphanages should be brought back has come to the government's and
publics attention. There are still a few orphanages running today,
however the number is no where near it was one hundred years ago. With
the current welfare crisis, many such as Republican Newt Gingrich feel
that support payments should be stopped or greatly reduced to mothers
continuing to have children on welfare. The money would then be used to
support orphanages. This of course would mean taking many children away
from their natural parents. Opposition to the whole idea of orphanages
refute it mainly because of two reasons. They disagree with the breakup
of families and feel the whole policy would be too costly. While these
two ideas are difficult to content with, the truth is in the numbers.
Many children not only live in homes that cannot support them
financially, but are abusive. These children are not receiving warm and
nurturing care, but may be scarred for life. There are also too many
people taking advantage of the system by continuing to have children to
gain financial support. While many feel that orphanages are a socially
wrong solution to the welfare problem, many children have proven that
growing up in one provides for a stable and nurturing atmosphere,
therefore orphanages should be re instituted.

Orphanages, like many other institutions, have been around for hundreds
of years. Stated by Nicholas Scoppetta, a chairman and executive
director of Children's Aid Society states, <*>. Because of this
dehumanization factor, many feel that orphanages are no place for
children to grow up. This antiorphanage view was also reinforced by
historian writers in the 1960's and 70's who <*>. This "social control"
theory was seen as a way for the upper class to keep control over the
lower ones. In truth, orphanages did not disappear because of stories of
grotesque conditions, but lost the battle to the success and beliefs of
other programs such as foster care. In recent years however, these anti
orphanage views have been greatly weakened. In a study of three
institutions in Baltimore, historian writer Nurith Zmora stated, <*>.
Many of these orphanages, did in fact provide a well balanced lifestyle
for their orphans, even preparing them for the future. One example would
be the Samuel Ready School for orphaned girls. The school spent a great
deal of time training and finding jobs for graduates. <*>. 

One of the greatest arguments in opposition to the use of orphanages is
the break up of families. In many cases however, children in orphanages
were not taken from their families, but voluntarily placed there by
parents who couldn't adequately care for them. No one will deny that the
best place for a child is with his family, however, there is no
guarantee that the biological parents would provide a loving and
nurturing setting for their children. Stated by Rita Kramer, writer for
the Manhattan Institute City Journal, <*>. Stories such as these
certainly put a hold on the idea of "family preservation".

In the United States alone, 400,000 orphans live in foster care and
countless others must fend for themselves on the harsh streets. For
those homeless children, orphanages provide and alternative to living on
the street. <*>. Concerning foster care, many children are bounced from
home to home, with no means for stability in their life. This "main
current alternative to the biological parent" has encountered many
problems on it's own. In many cases the foster care can't deal with the
many psychological aspects of the orphan or <*>. with foster care, there
is also a feeling of neglect and disparity. Pia McKay, a former orphan
states, <*>. In these institutions, orphans are surrounded by others
like themselves, create lasting relationships, and feel a sense of
belonging. Speaking of St Joseph's Orphanage, a former resident states
<*>. 

While it is not necessary to completely cut all forms of economic
benefits to families or single parents in need, payments in many cases
should be reduced. Cases like these involve those parents who continue
to have children, while at the same time are unable to support
themselves. These cuts along with fund raisers (such as those at Boy's
Town), donations and additional governmental support would help
orphanage expenses.

While the use of orphanages is not the only solution to the problem, it
should be a definite consideration. In most cases, it would only be
necessary to take a child away from the family if there is visible
evidence of abuse or neglect. It is unnecessary to take them away from a
financially unstable home if the parents can prove that they are
providing the child with a caring and nurturing atmosphere. In cases
such as these, perhaps what is needed is additional financial support or
job opportunities.

According to John M. Cooper, author of Children's Institutions, three
things should be considered with he use of an orphanage. <*>. With these
guidelines, orphanages have a chance at outstanding success. The life of
the child, is not one to be gambled with. Something needs to be done to
better the situation, and soon. It is important to remember that while
coming to a solution, the children's best interests are always in mind.
<*>.





























<ICLEUSMRQ0025.1>

When someone thinks of business what do they think of? They think of big
business; the suits, stocks and bonds, and of course the money involved.
Business is not just a matter of economic exchange, money, commodities,
and profits; it involves human interactions, is basic to human society,
and is intertwined with the political, social, legal, and cultural
aspects of society today. What then is ethics? Ethics are the goals and
actions people ought to perform to do what is good or right for human
beings. When used in business, ethics involves the relationship of what
is right in business and its environment because business is a complex
fabric of human relationships. It is often said that business and ethics
don't mix which is why business has its own rules, objectives, ethical
standards, and judgments to follow. In business there is more involved
than just making a profit and getting ahead; it involves relationships
throughout the business environment and there must be a sense of respect
and trust involved or else the business will fail. 

The relationships created in business include the union between the
producers and the consumers, the employers and the employees, and the
corporation and society. The business system of the United States is a
free market system which allows the producers and the consumers control
over their end of the system. According to Fortune, <*>. This supports
my claim because if the producers just worry about their money and not
build a relationship with their consumers, the consumers will find
someone else to patronize. Without consumer support their business is
not making a profit and is forced to close.

Business is an economic institution, but like our economy as a whole it
has a moral foundation. Lying, fraud, deception, and theft sometimes
lead to greater profit and this is morally wrong and unethical according
to the book Business Ethics and Common Sense. The book lists the correct
guidelines for business transaction as following: <*>. In business, some
argue, profit takes first place and that is all that matters; it doesn't
matter about relationships as long as they get their money and everyone
is happy. This is what irritates business because many people in
business are just out for themselves and do not care about relationships
as long as they get their money. They don't care if they lie or cheat
the consumer because they are just greedy and out for self satisfaction
and profit. They should follow the guidelines so they do not cheat the
consumer and instead build long lasting relationships.

When talking about the tradition of business we talk about small shops,
hardware stores, restaurants, and door to door salespeople. Today this
has all changed and most of these ideas are obsolete because of the big
business procedures. There is nothing wrong with big business as long as
they are treating the community fairly and honestly. For example, Sam
Walton, founder of Walmart, treated his employees and customers with
respect, thus building friendships and becoming successful. Time stated
his philosophy: <*> This theory is the correct way of doing business and
it worked great because the relationships were more important and
essential than profit to their business system.

Another idea in business that has changed is advertising. Advertising is
necessary to convey information to consumers and to make them aware of
what products are available. But how much information is really conveyed
in such slogans as <*>. This shows that their main purpose is not to
inform, but to persuade consumers. This also hurts the relationship
between the business environment; the producers are lying or making
their product seem better than it really is just to make money in sales
and a greater profit even though they are lying to their consumers by
making their product seem more intriguing. Advertisers and salespeople
have also been accused of deceiving and manipulating the public through
techniques such as exaggeration, failure to tell the whole truth about a
product, misleading pricing, and packaging. 

The next example shows how sales procedures are wrong and are causing
harm to the consumers. In Norton's article he reviews and analyzes and
states that <*>. In his article he argues that <*>. This also hurts the
relationships that have occurred between the producers and the consumers
and this practice breaks the correct business plan that businesses are
suppose to follow. According to the ideas presented in the Business
Ethics & Common Sense, it states that <*>.

To contrast my claim is the idea that is presented in a case from the
book Business Ethics, which talks about B.F. Goodrich Co. and its low
cost contact with the Air Force. The case states that <*>. Goodrich
Company did not mind that they were going to lose money on the original
deal, but they knew that aircraft brakes would end up to be very
profitable for them. This just shows that profit will come in the long
run and that they do not have to rush into the money. They realized that
they would have to order parts for the brakes if one broke, and if they
took good care of the Air Force that they would get other deals with
them. This example showed how a company was willing to give in at first
and build a relationship before they worried about profit because they
knew that profit would come to them in the future after a good
relationship was established.

<*>. This explains why something has to change in the business world
today because business has to be looked at positively and not
negatively. This is why people are stressing to build relationships and
look in terms of the future; instead of just profit and self
satisfaction. This all helps to explain why there is more emphasis on
who you know and who your partners are rather than how much money you
have. Money can not buy you friends, health of happiness, but good
relationships can get you places in life just  like Sam Walton, B.F.
Goodrich Company, and the other successful men in our society. 





















<ICLEUSMRQ0026.1>

Looking through the years of history it is hard to imagine a time when
religion did not exist. Religion essentially was the foundation of
society of the past. And it continues to be influential factor in modern
day society. But even though it has been instrumental in the development
of societies and states, people and learned through war and consequence,
that church and state do not mix. The founders of the Constitution
learned the lesson the hard way. They recognized that the union of
government and religion ultimately results in the abuses of religious
liberties and the persecution of unpopular beliefs. With this in mind,
they wrote the First Amendment of the Constitution, which states that
Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion. When
the founders of the Constitution first drafted the First Amendment there
were no public schools. Yet they were able to create a law that has been
used to protect the rights of American school children in all faiths. In
1962 the Supreme Court decided that prayer in public classrooms is
unconstitutional. This ruling ha become a subject of controversy. Donald
W. Shriver presents a religious argument against praying in public
schools. He maintains that religion is more of a personal matter and it
is not necessary to bring it into public places. Eugene H. Methvin
believes that people have the right to express their religious
convictions in a public atmosphere if that is what they want to do.
Shriver's argument is a stronger argument when compared to Methvin
because he presents facts that support his position rather than just the
opinions of people, and he does not commit any fallacies that weaken his
argument. 

In order for an argument to be considered a strong argument, it must
make an arguable claim and all of the evidence that the author presents
must support the claim. Methvin states his claim at the beginning of his
argument. He states, <*>. His claim is never really clear because it is
not his own. He merely adds a weak statement to a powerful quote. This
is not an effective strategy for argumentation. The strong quote should
have been followed up with a strong claim. But because the claim is
weak, it ruins the effectiveness of the quote.

Not only is the author responsible for making a strong claim, he must
also supply reasons that support his claim. Methvin supplies some pieces
of supporting evidence, but he does not use his information effectively.
He bases his claim on other people's opinions. A research for his
argument he conducted a survey on what Americans wanted in their public
schools and he drew conclusions from the resulting evidence. For
example, he quotes a person that he believes is an authority on the
matter, <*>.

Here the author is committing the fallacy of appeal to unqualified
authority. This is a weak form of argumentation because how is the
reader to know that this is a qualified source? It would have been more
effective if he would have supplied some factual information in support
of the quote, but he does not. In fact the only piece of supporting
evidence that he does provide in his argument is about the First
Amendment He believes that the First Amendment is misunderstood. He
states, <*>. He goes on to state, <*>. Here Methvin makes the point that
the founders of the Constitution supported religion and it does not make
any sense that they would discourage it in any way. This piece of
supporting evidence is strong, but once again he does not elaborate in
its importance. He simply moves on to another quote, from another
"authority figure". Another factor that attributes to poor argumentation
is that he never responds to the beliefs of his opposition. He states
how things should be, however he never gives an explanation for why they
should be that way. He should have included opinions from the opposition
and he should have addressed them. By leaving out his opposition the
reader is lead to believe that he is hiding something or that his claim
is not strong enough to handle opposing beliefs.

In Shriver's argument, like Methvin, he presents his claim at the
beginning. But unlike Methvin, Shriver's claim is clear and effective.
He introduces some historical information that enforces his ideas and
then he moves into his claim. He states, <*>. By including his claim
into the beginning of the argument there is no confusion as to what side
the author is taking and what he hopes to achieve by arguing this point.
This is a very important aspect to effective argumentation.

In addition to his strong claim Shriver provides numerous pieces of
supporting information. He defines the two most prominent voices in the
debate are those of piety who want to legalize praying in the public
schools and those who fear the influence of religion in schools or any
where else. The author then identifies himself as a member of the third
party, who believes that there are religious reasons for excluding
praying in the public schools. In a very organized fashion he divides
his argument into three sections that describe his three religious
reasons for why prayer should not be allowed in public schools. For each
reason, he supplies factual information that corroborates with his
claim. He defines the first reason as a theological reason for why
praying has should not be allowed in public schools. He questions if
religious rituals, like prayer and church attendance, are really serving
God. By reading this statement alone, the reader might be turned off to
the author's claim altogether, but he quickly follows up the statement
with another statement that is hard to disagree with. He states, <*>.
Here the author is doing two things. First of all he is supporting his
reasoning by quoting from the Bible. And unlike Methvin he is
identifying his opposition, by addressing their stand on the issue. Not
only is he addressing other opinions, but he is using their opinions to
make his argument stronger.

His second form of reasoning is hard to argue with, although it supports
his claim more than his opponent's claim. He states, <*>. This is a very
strong aspect to his argument because it is hard to argue against. It is
fair to assume that people would agree that learning takes place
everywhere. 

His third reasoning is at the heart of his argument and this is the
reason that he has been leading up to. So far he has only gathered momen
tum, by providing small, but important pieces of factual evidence in
support of his claim. As a third reason he states, <*>. Shriver goes on
to state that religious majorities do not respect religious minorities
and this is why praying in public schools is wrong. He states, <*>. This
is a very powerful quote that not only supports his claim, but it forces
the reader to look at the debate from another viewpoint. 

Today praying in the public schools is prohibited for reasons mentioned
by Shriver and by the basic confinements of the First Amendment.
although it is important to weigh the facts of both sides of the issue,
it is also important to recognize flaws in argumentation and reasoning.
In the case of Shriver and Methvin, Shriver delivers a clear well
thought out claim, and he utilizes all of the information that he
presents. Everything that he claims is supported by numerous pieces of
supporting evidence. Methvin's claim in unclear and weak. He lacks the
ability to persuade because he does not provide enough factual
information to support his claim, and he commits a fallacy and that only
adds to the fact that he presents a weak argument.
























































<ICLEUSMRQ0027.1>

I believe that the public has a right to be informed about anything and
everything that they want to be informed about, and people want to be
informed about the death penalty; therefore, media should have access to
report on executions. However, there access should be restricted to
exclude any and all devices which could endanger security or safety of
the people involved. This argument is debated often around times when
the death penalty is actually put into effect. One such case which
receive national attention was in California. The defendant, and person
to be executed, was Robert Alton Harris.

Robert Alton Harris was sentenced to death in 1979 for the kidnapping
and murder of two San Diego teenagers. He was on parole after having
served three years for manslaughter when this happened. After an
enormous number of appeals, Harris was finally executed in the gas
chamber on the morning of April 21, 1992, shortly after 6 a.m. Harris
was the first person to be executed in California since 1967.
Originally, San Quentin warden Daniel Vasquez had banned all media
coverage of the execution. In a press release, Vasquez reasoned that
<*>.

However, San Francisco public television channel KQED filed a lawsuit
opposing the ban because they were working on a documentary about Harris
and wanted to film the execution. Over two dozen newspapers and
broadcast stations joined KQED in protesting the ban. Some of these
groups included the American Newspaper Publishers Association,
California Newspaper Publishers Association, California First Amendment
Coalition, National Press Photographers Association and the Radio and
Television News Directors Association of Southern California. The media
groups filed a brief in U.S. District Court asking that the ban be
canceled on the grounds that it would <*>. Judge Robert H. Schnacke
overruled the ban and allowed for reporters to be in the witness
execution room. He did not allow them to bring in video cameras, though.

James F. Brelsford, attorney for the San Francisco Examiner and author
of the brief mentioned previously, said he was <*>. The reason Schnacke
made the decision that he did was because the warden, Vasquez, had made
to effort to justify his ban on all reporters that no evidence was
presented to suggest that reports using notebooks and pencils posed any
security risks. Ten weeks later, Schnacke barred sketch pads along with
cameras during executions.

The argument given by people who oppose reporters witnessing executions
is the fact that they believe that the media is searching for "high
ratings". They think that it is grisly and gruesome for the press to
film, or report about, persons undergoing the death penalty. While this
is a legitimate argument, it simply does not override the First
Amendment to the Constitution, which states <*>

Television stations, particularly KQED in this case, are not "out for
ratings" when seeking permission to witness executions. Greg Sherwood,
director of communications for KQED, said that the station had been
planning to film the execution of Robert Alton Harris as part of a
documentary that it is doing on the condemned killer. Sherwood told
Editor & Publisher that the television station is not looking for high
ratings. <*>.

Dan Morain, writer for Los Angeles Times, was one of the eyewitnesses of
Harris's execution. He told his readers that he took the assignment
because <*>.

Although there are no good reasons for banning reporters from witnessing
executions, there are very good reasons for not allowing the filming of
executions. Besides the fact that no prison has ever allowed photographs
or filming of an execution, it would pose security problems for prison
staff, who would rather not be on television for identification
purposes. Another reason is that inmate are more tense and aggressive
around the time of an execution and that to televise it might cause
violence. Other reasons include concern by staff members who wish to
keep their identification for fear of retribution and that a heavy
object like a television camera might pose a problem if it were to
accidentally hit the glass of the gas chamber when deadly gas was
present. These are all excellent reasons for excluding filming of
executions, but they are not reason to exclude journalists from the
witness room.

As you can see, the media has a clear right to witness and report about
executions. Although they do not have the right to film or take pictures
during the actual event of the execution, or to film any member of the
execution staff, they do have a clear right under the First Amendment to
inform the public of the executions. If you find the event grisly and
gruesome, turn it off; it is that simple.



































<ICLEUSMRQ0028.1>

I remember driving to northern Wisconsin with my Father when I was
twelve. On the way there he told me he wanted to explain the bird's and
the bee's to me. We both blushed, chuckled and shrugged it off to
embarrassment. Although I had many questions for my Father, the talk of
sexual relationships was never spoken of again. However, my curiosities
about sexual relationships still existed. Finally at the age of eighteen
I gave in to peer pressures to have sexual intercourse. I decided to
have sex with a class mate to feel socially accepted by my peers. My
values and beliefs regarding sexual relationships caused me to commit to
the relationship. Having sex just to have sex is considered casual sex.
Casual sex is unacceptable, its degrading, animalistic, and runs the
risk of disease. After a few months of dating she became pregnant. From
this moment on, my life would never be the way I expected it. At
eighteen I needed to make life altering decisions with my mate on what
our options were. We felt the right decision was to get married, have
the child, and live happily ever after. We were wrong, after a few
difficult years of marriage we divorced. The lack of parental guidance
regarding sexual relationships for youths' emphasizes the need for
schools to teach children morals and values of sexual relationships.

We send our children to school to educate them. Through educating them
we hope they learn enough of these tools to guide them through life so
that they may be successful and happy. Some of these tools are the
morals and values that sexual relationships are based on. The morals and
values I speak of in a sexual relationship are the abstinence from
sexual intercourse without a commitment toward marriage. The loving
compassion two people should give each other. Belief in the words for
better and for worse "till death do you part", and the use of condoms to
promote safe sex. Without teaching teens sexual ethics they inevitably
will go with the flow, which at this time is casual sex.

Education of sexual activity for youth is no longer taught by parents.
Parents are failing to talk to their children about sex because of
embarrassment, and the lack of knowledge they have. Without guidance
from their parents teens are experimenting on their own. This type of
education exposes unnecessary risks to each other, such as, AIDS,
pregnancy and many other sexually transmitted diseases that are
contracted daily. According to one article researched the latest
statistic available before 1989 claimed there were, <*>. This means over
two million couples think they're smart enough to avoid an unwanted
pregnancy. <*>. Why are these couples getting married if their
intentions aren't to commit to each other? With proper education on the
value of marriage, these young men and women could learn the sacredness
of marriage.

Schools that are teaching sex education are being studied to see if sex
education in the classroom is effective in the goal to promote
education. Results of these studies show <*>. The students that were
taught sex education in school are now personally benefiting from their
knowledge of sexual education. Educations of sex in school have also
been including instruction on sexual morals.

There are some that may argue teaching sexual morals and values in
schools is unethical. What these parents are failing to understand is
that youngsters are having sexual relationships at a much younger age,
compared to when they were youngsters. Through the media these
youngsters are bombarded by sexual activity constantly. The media has
made sex sell. A good portion of advertisement use sexy men or women
hardly dressed to sell their product. This type of behavior teaches our
youngsters very little respect for sexual behavior.

Parents are hiding behind their bedroom doors avoiding confrontation
from having to speak about sexual education and morals to their
children. Not only are parents hiding but so are the churches. <*>. In
the past we looked up to the church to educate us on sexual ethics and
morals. Now we see the church turning their backs on our youth also.
With everyone avoiding teenagers and their need to know about sexual
relations, it's only logical that schools begin teaching our children
sex education.

With the risk of contracting sexually transmitted diseases on the rise,
teenagers must be aware of the health dangers they expose to themselves
by having sexual intercourse. Some of these diseases are life
threatening. Aids is a  perfectly good example of these diseases.
Without an education from parents or the church a teenager is
practically left defenseless against them.

Twelve years have passed since making the decision to have our son, and
we haven't had any regrets of bringing him into this world. My son is
presently dating girls; however, these are without sexual relations. I
have been teaching him these morals and values of relationships since
the age of eight. The results of my teachings for my son have thus far
proven effective. He has no intention to have sex with some one. I
realize that the next six years will be the most critical for Him. With
knowledge from education, I'm confident he will make the right choices
on his own. Through my experiences I've learned the importance for
children to be educated early in life and constantly reinforced the need
for sexual awareness and personal relationships.





























<ICLEUSMRQ0029.1>

Drastic advances in medicine in recent years are causing us to rethink
certain issues. These issues need redefining in a world where new
techniques, treatments, and ideas are increasingly complicated. Some of
these advancements now are tried and true, others give only a small hope
for recovery, while others are barely out of the experimental stage.
These new issues are raising more and more questions. Not only does this
pose a dilemma to the physicians, it provokes thought in each
individual. We must consider what the boundaries are on how much we are
willing to go through to try to cheat death. The right to refuse life
support is an individual one, and one that should be considered by each
and every individual.

To make a decision this important to our lives, we must first decide
what human life means to us. <*>. Everyone has their own attitude toward
life. This attitude helps define our life. We each perceive events in
our lives differently. Our memories of childhood define how we look upon
events. Our personality plays a part in our perception of instances in
our life. Our memories, our personality, other events in our lives
determine whether particular events are major or minor to our lives. We
each want something different from life. These are to be considered when
deciding what makes our life important to use.

If we have defined life, then we must define death. <*>. In time the
focus was on breathing. Later the heartbeat became the distinction
between life and death. Then death was determined by lack of brain
activity. The brain and its connection to the senses, to speech,
understanding and reasoning is an integral part of life. Death could be
defined as the loss of these important aspects connected to our
determination of life.

Where do you draw the line between life and death? To determine this
question, we have to consider our definition of life and our definition
of death. I've heard of people o want to be put on life support in the
hopes that the cure or treatment to their ailment will be discovered.
<*>. People with this frame of mind have even tried cryogenics. To these
people life is precious at any cost. The cost here is more than money.
Consider the price of emotions as well, to ourselves and to people whose
lives we have touched.

On the other hand, others see no point in any kind of life support, or
draw the line at certain kinds. They wonder what the point is of
prolonging imminent death. <*>. Others do not want constant and/or
unbearable pain. Who can say that a person in a coma does not feel pain?
Some people have little or no hope for their life as they have known it,
and simply want to end it. They do not want life to be <*>. It is a
personal decision; one that must be taken very seriously, for there's no
turning back. If there is no hope for life as we know or want it, what
decision would we make? Would we want someone else to make this decision
without regarding our wish(es). It is not an easy decision to make. But,
it is our choice to make: this is our life, our death that we are
talking about. There's a lot to be considered. Ask questions, ask for
advice, but ultimately, it is our very own decision.

Physicians, nurses, and others are often witnesses to death. People who
go into these fields must have had to deal with this issue in their
training. I think it must take a person with a special attitude to
accept this everpresent issue. How do they face it? <*>. I think most
physicians are very sensitive to their patients' wishes regarding death.
<*>. This is a point worth considering. A physician would be a good
source of answers, of advice.

I personally consider the essentials in life to be breathing, eating,
feeling, smiling, and most of all loving and having the ability to know
we are loved. Something like blindness would alter my life, but it would
still be life. I would not feel the same about a terminal illness or a
fatal injury, one in which there was no hope or one in which I could not
communicate with anyone. I do not want machines to be the only thing
keeping me alive. I also do not want to suffer; a suffering that takes
over all other aspects of my life. To me that is not living. My wishes
under these circumstances would be not to have life support. That is my
decision.

We have pondered the meaning of our life, and in turn, our death. There
are a lot of things to be taken into consideration to decide just how
far we really want to go with extending our life, and putting off death.
Since it is our life, our death we are considering here, the answer must
be our own decision. <*>.







































<ICLEUSMRQ0030.1>


I turn on the news and what do I see? Democrats and Republicans arguing
over how to Reform the Welfare System, cut down on crime, and balance
the budget. Now that the Republicans have gained control of the House,
they have given us their "Contract With America", which, they claim,
will solve all of our problems. Welfare reform is the first problem they
want to tackle. That sounds like a good place to start, but how do they
plan to accomplish this task? They speak harshly of air programs and
seem to be driven by a growing coldness toward the poor. They have
mentioned drastic cuts in welfare benefits and the building of
orphanages. This leads me to believe that they have no idea where the
center of the problem lies. To completely understand the problem, one
must go back to when the current Welfare System was established.

The Welfare System was begun by President Herbert Hoover in the early
1930s and was expanded later through President F.D. Roosevelt's New Deal
Programs. It's purpose was to aid families through the Depression by
helping find jobs for the men, who were considered the breadwinners, and
offer some food and additional financial support so that mothers could
stay home and care for the children. This not only helped families to
stay together, but also kept the values of pride and selfworth intact.
Hoover's efforts were put forth somewhat reluctantly. He stated that,
<*>. As the years have gone by, his beliefs have proven to be true, for
the Welfare System has ceased to be an aid to help people work to
support themselves and their families and has, instead, become a way of
life for generations of American families  eroding the "American
Family" and stripping them of their traditions, values, and beliefs. Too
much government relief, over the years, has taken away people's pride in
earning a living and being selfsufficient, and has encouraged them to
quit their low paying jobs and rely on the Welfare System for food rent,
and medical assistance  all at the expense of hardworking taxpayers. I
know this from my own personal experience. I was a working, single
parent, barely making ends meet. When I went to the Social Services to
apply for food stamps, the social worker, after looking over my income
vs. my bills, encouraged me to quit my job and go on total welfare
because <*>. I was shocked, not because it was true, but because all I
wanted was a little help to aid me and my family through some difficult
times and I was being told to just give up trying. My reply, was,
"Thanks, but no thanks". I didn't want my daughter to grow up thinking
she could have whatever she wanted or needed without working to earn it.
However, I'm sure that many other people out there found it impossible
to pass up such an offer. This is how the American Family, and it's
values, began to deteriorate, and the Welfare System's problems began.
Without a concentrated plan to restore "the family and it's values",
Welfare Reform will never succeed.

There are many families who have been dependent on the Welfare System
for generations. Over the years they have forgotten all about pride and
self worth  have become indolent and/or chemical abusers  and have
passed this way of life down to their children. The erosion of the
American Family, and the values and beliefs nurtured by it, has also led
to the violence and crime that our society is experiencing today. This
has created an underclass crippled by the disintegration of the family
and it's values. These problems, along with poor work ethic, lack of
structure, discipline, selfesteem, and education, must be resolved. A
return to traditional family values, which include: love, respect,
discipline, strict morals, strong work ethic, and selfpride and esteem,
must be taught and reinforced, both to parents and children of welfare
families, before welfare reform can succeed. A restoration of the strong
family unit would help all Americans to lead more successful and content
lives.

The welfare reforms, touted by Newt Gingrich and his followers, will
only serve to further divide the American Family. Here are some examples
of what they would like to do:

1.           Build orphanages and fill them with the children from families
who will not be able to survive financially after they cut back on
welfare subsidies. (they have not presented any ideas or programs to
assist these families, in the transition from welfare to the work force,
so they could stay together.)

2.           Take babies away from teenage mothers, who aren't yet mature
enough to rear them, or financially able to support them, and put them
in orphanages or up for adoption. (Again, no mention of parental
counseling and job training, which could keep the family together.)

3.           Force people to work by immediately cutting off all welfare
benefits. (That's fine, but again, there is no mention of programs to
assist these people, in the transition from total welfare to the work
force, such as job training and placement.)

It is obvious that Mr Gingrich does not understand the problem of
Welfare Reform at all. None of these ideas do anything to promote the
American Family, or assist them in becoming financially independent.
Instead, they only serve to worsen an already oppressive problem.

Welfare reform must also be linked to behavioral changes by recipients,
such as acceptance of work. The Government must play a positive
supporting role by providing: job training and placement, subsidized
quality day care for children, affordable housing (with strict rules on
behavior and maintenance), and affordable medical assistance. Without
this type of assistance, it will be impossible for parents to return to
the work force  to become part of the American tax base  and solely
support their families, with the low paying jobs they will have to start
with. This assistance should be coupled with the availability of
professional counseling for parents on chemical abuse, child abuse, and
parenting. There is also a need for Temporary Group Homes for children
from problem families. Here they could continue their schooling, while
receiving counseling, and learn about proper behaviors, moral ethics,
selfdiscipline, and selfesteem. An example of such a home is the
Spring Meadows Children's Home in Louisville, KY. Here, welltrained and
caring staff bring love, structure, and discipline into the lives of
children from troubled families. Spring Meadows also offers counseling
to the parents, on parenting and drug, alcohol, and child abuse, and
they work together to reunite the families and to give them a more
positive outlook on life.

In conclusion, I feel that the restoration of the "American Family", and
it's values, must take the front seat in the drive towards Welfare
Reform. Through the support programs I have mentioned, parents can
regain their sense of pride and selfworth and become positive role
models for their children. The Government's supporting role will serve
as sustenance and encouragement for it's people and allow them to get
back into the tax base. Without strong families and values, not only
will Welfare Reform fail, but our Society will continue to deteriorate
and the United States will lose it's position as the greatest Country in
the World.






<ICLEUSMRQ0031.1>
In all of the colleges and universities across the United States,
administrators are trying to increase enrollment. This is entirely
ethical and in most cases necessary to continue to have many of the
programs and facilities that the universities offer. To accomplish this,
many universities add courses and provide new things such as research
labs and new cutting edge equipment. Many universities even try to
accommodate the changing needs of the students by providing services
such as free tutors and bigger staffs.

But not once before have I heard of a university trying to attract
students with grass, trees, and a fountain. To be exact, about five city
blocks of it, none the least. That's right, our very own Marquette
University is trying what in my opinion is one of the most unethical
ideas to attract students since UCLA added classes to attend to
different racial histories and socalled physcological differences. This
green space is supposed to create a more comfortable learning
environment, but might just reverse this comfort when students see the
cost of just under five blocks of grass. It's a whopping ten million
dollars that the students, not the gesus, are going to pay. Even if they
divvy it up over twenty or so years, many students can't afford this
increase. I myself am barely scraping by. Plus this grass will cost
locals a matching ten million dollars just to reroute all of the
utilities that run through Wisconsin Avenue.

Some of the utilities effected by the common's project will be local
buses. If many of you noticed, about three to five routes come through
Marquette's planned commons and that just might cause problems. The
transit company is estimating to lose between "$1 million and $600,000,"
which the university is trying to offset by getting students on the U
pass system. The University of Milwaukee is one of the users of this
system. I feel that this won't help, considering that a large number of
students that already use the county transit and contribute to the
profits of the county's transit. I feel that the city might lose more mo
ney, rather than less, as Marquette thought through the Upass system.

Also, a large number of students don't live in the dorms. When you come
to college you want to be away from the establishment (parents,
authority). Where do you think that ten million dollars is going to come
from? My guess is property taxes. And all property taxes usually reflect
in the rent of many students. That is primarily what you pay when you
rent.

I can't condemn Marquette for its current push to increase enrollment.
However, Marquette has to face some facts. Some people don't really care
whether or not Marquette has grass. But other students from out of town
view it differently. They feel that grass will improve the university.
Although I think that yes, the grass will improve the university from
the appearance standpoint, the students are actually coming here to
learn. The grass will not affect your Chemistry class or make Biology
any easier, it will just look nice.

<*>. If you read the motto earlier in the school year, Marquette life
was referred to as the <*>. Being downtown is why many students choose
Marquette. The downtown element is vital to the entire original
Marquette experience. Somehow I think they are trying to lose the
"Urban" part. Is this ethical?

Contrary to public belief, there is a lot of greenspace at Marquette. It
you go to Joan of Arc or if you go on the other side of Laulumiere Hall
you see a very large area of grass and trees. Also if you go to the AMU
or if you visit some of the dorms, there is greenspace. What gets me is
that no one uses it. <*>. Why get more of something we don't already
use? It defeats the purpose; especially at this expense.

There are other options available to Marquette though. I have not heard
Marquette address the idea of getting a NCAA football team. Think about
it. How many colleges in the U.S. can you name that don't have some
great sports program. Even Harvard is known for its rowing team and that
is completely ethical. Why can't Marquette get involved in this hoopla?
Think about it. We already have a great location, Valley Fields.
Marquette could sign on to get a Division 1 football team. With a good
football team comes free publicity and it is always good. Look at the
University of WisconsinMadison or even Notre Dame. Both of these
schools have had great enrollment since their football teams started.
Marquette gathers student athletes from obscure areas. Not once have I
seen Marquette scout out a person from a football team unless they ran
track and did well in that. Why not bolster what we have seen gets
results instead off spending money on a whim. I hate to rain on many a
person's parade but, I have a roommate who has an air rifle scholarship.
I know, you probably never heard of it before either. This year they did
really well. They won their conference in second team shooting. This is
the first time I have ever even heard such a thing. How much is the
university going to gain from such a sport. Nothing. Air rifle is not a
spectator sport. I have never heard two people talk about an air rifle
match or even a rifle match, except during the Olympics. I have seen the
cost of maintaining such equipment. Believe me, it is up there. Just a
case of shells, about 50, costs anywhere from $25 to $250 and most are
manufactured in Italy, this even makes it seem more extravagant. That is
a lot of money and the average match uses that much for one person. The
athletes don't spend the money on this and only a few of them are
sponsored so where do you think the money comes from? Think about it.
The team is about 15 members and the cost for only ammunition is about
$50 a match. There are about six tournaments a year and practice which
is three times a week. Then there are coaches, lodging for tournaments,
facility costs, entrance fees, transportation, etc... You get the idea.
Marquette has to veer away from the trap of creating programs which only
relate to a few people. Not many people go to the multicultural center,
but it was built and I like it. But other programs have to be stopped
before they start. Programs such as this rifle team do nothing for the
university as a whole. It only adds 15 people to the enrollment and
creates piles of debt for other students to pay. 

Avenue Commons is a great idea. that is where it should stay. In the
idea mode. In order to do this program we will probably lose attendance,
because people will not be able to afford tuition. Communication
sophomore Todd Clausen best illustrates this. <*>.

Todd is the example of how many of the students feel. He mentions in his
article that if tuition goes much higher, he well have to consider going
to a community college. I agree. Marquette has an awfully high tuition.
Next year it will average to be about $12,500 for just tuition and the
campus fee will increase to about $120 dollars a semester. That is a lot
of money for the average student who only makes about $5,000 a year. 

This is only a sample of what faced the students when Avenue Commons
came before the Common Council. The students who support this truly
don't realize what they are getting into.

I sympathize for those who truly believe that Avenue Commons will make
Marquette a better university. A better university is defined by the
students that they turn out not the number that attend. If Marquette
wants to make a better university, try reasonable solutions. Like
organized sports with broad appeal and by cutting costs and tuition by
killing programs that only appeal to one small group. Don't go out on a
limb and place Marquette's tradition of the <*> on the line.
     

















 















 










 
 





<ICLEUSMRQ0032.1>

"Baby Richard". That's a name that we've frequently seen in newspapers
across America during the past few months. At the time Otakar Kirchner,
Richard's biological father, contested the adoption of his son he had no
idea the case would be so complicated. when Daniela Janikova gave birth
to Richard she lied to Kirchner in telling him the boy had died. By the
time Kirchner found out what really occurred it was too late to try to
get his son back without getting the law too involved. <*>. And so the
tug of war battle for Richard begins. To understand this case, we must
look at the chain of events that occurred from the very beginning: <*>.

In looking at this time line, we should take note that when Kirchner
first contested the adoption Richard was just under three months old. If
the court acted quickly and if the adoptive parents, whom are referred
to as Jane and John Doe, had been more cooperative, the jurisdiction
over the whole thing wouldn't be quite as messy. But now Richard is
almost four years old. There is so much at stake. On January 25, 1995,
the Supreme Court of Illinois granted custody of Richard to his
biological father. The decision of the Supreme Court has sparked the
debate of whether or not it is ethical to remove Richard from whom he
knows as his family, for it is a decision which shall greatly affect his
psychological development. It is a decision that also will hurt those
close to him, and furthermore will scar the image people have towards
adoption.

The Illinois Supreme Court made an immense mistake in transferring
custody of Richard from his adoptive parents to his biological father.
Before we discuss the case of "Baby Richard", we might want to go back a
couple of years to the case of "Baby Jessica". According to an article
published in Newsweek in March of 1994, Jessica now seems to be doing
quite well. <*>. One might argue that since things are turning out well
for Jessica (now named Anna), the same will happen to Richard. However,
there is something we must consider. Richard is at a different, more
crucial stage in social development than Jessica was. Jessica was two
and a half years old, a time when a child recognizes his or her parents
for food, shelter, and the other necessities of life. At that stage,
however, the child cannot yet comprehend abstract concepts such as love.
The two and a half year old child is not as capable of developing an
emotional attachment as is the four year old child. Richard is at the
point in his life where he is beginning to grasp such abstract concepts.
Richard has, at this point, learned to love and be loved. He has by now
established strong bonds with his parents. To take him away now would be
ripping him away form the only family he's known, the only family he's
loved. Think back to when you were four years old. When you were that
age (if you can remember) could you have seen yourself being with
anybody other than your parents?

The decision of the Illinois Supreme Court will eventually take its toll
on the psychological health of Richard. At four years old, Richard is at
a crucial stage of psychosocial development. Distinguished
psychoanalyst, Erik Erikson, <*>. Erikson recognizes the conflict
present in Richard's stage of development as "initiative vs. guilt". If
Richard is ripped away from his home at this stage it is highly likely
that he will think it is because of something he did. He would feel he
is at fault. This can have a disastrous effect on his further
development. If Richard is taken away now, this conflict of initiative
vs. guilt may be left unresolved. Because of this Richard may very
likely always feel he is to blame for everything. This would make him a
less assertive person. He will not take the initiative. Taking Richard
away now would be too traumatic for him, or for that matter any four
year old, to handle.

Although Richard is the one who will be most greatly affected in this
case, there are other things that will come out of this. Mr. and Mrs
Doe, for example, will have to suffer the loss of their child, a child
that they raised up to this point. It is in the parents where the
emotional bonds are the most strong. The Does' attitude towards adoption
has been changed throughout this case. The adoption institution has hurt
them in a way in which they've never been hurt before. The Does now hold
an attitude that is becoming representative of a large population that
thinks reform is needed in adoption laws. The idea of adoption has been
wounded through cases such as "Baby Jessica" and "Baby Richard". What is
the point of adopting a child and having that child become one of the
most important things in your life, only to have the child suddenly
ripped away from you someday? Nobody likes to be hurt, so why go through
with it?

Adoption is an institution which is already suffering. Many people look
to adoption as the only hope in a hopeless situation. It works in favor
of every party represented, usually. A mother who cannot afford to keep
her baby won't have to kill it, the baby therefore gets a much deserved
chance at life. And parents who have always wanted a child but could not
physically have their own can get a child. In the nineties we are
looking for alternatives to teen moms and abortion. Adoption is the
alternative, but with the recent events, more people are turning their
backs on it.

We can already see what is beginning to happen as a result of the Babies
Jessica and Richard cases. The legal system involving adoption is
realizing something is wrong. In an article published in the ABA
Journal, Mark Hansen writes: <*>.  The article discussed <*>. The
Uniform Adoption Act is an attempt to put forth clearly stated adoption
laws and proceedings. These laws will no longer very from state to
state, rather, they will be uniformly set. That is, they will be the
same throughout the nation. This act has come about as a result of the
instances within the past few years.

I'm not sure I can understand the ruling of the Illinois Supreme Court
in regards to the Baby Richard case. All I see is a little boy who is
clearly happy with his adoptive parents and is now being torn from them
because his biological father wants him. Perhaps Kirchner's intentions
are good, but if he knew what was best for his son, he would realize
Richard should stay where he is happy and loved.

There were many faults in the court's decision. The main problem was
that it seemed to be made in haste. The judges decided the fate of this
innocent four year old boy in a matter of four hours. When the Does took
the case to the U.S. Supreme Court they were denied a trial. However,
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor ordered that each judge submit a brief
stating how they came to the conclusion. Yet, this does not change the
decision. It just seems that the Illinois Supreme Court failed to
recognize the drastic effects the decision would have on the boy as well
as that which he represents, hope for stability in the idea of adoption.







<ICLEUSMRQ0033.1>

Although Euthanasia is practiced throughout the U.S., it is still a very
controversial topic of conversation. Proponents of euthanasia argue that
the Declaration of Independence states life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness as rights that all American possess. Opponents of euthanasia
present the questions, "does the right to your own life include the
right to take that life as well?" In my opinion, that should not be so.
Simply because that there are few people who are thinking of taking
there own lives and are also of sane mind. If someone is having a bad
enough struggle within themselves that they are willing to end that God
given life, then it is possible that the individual is not mentally or
emotionally stable to make that decision. So, who is to decide whether a
life is worth living? Who can project whether a patient in a coma will
come to consciousness or not? With questions such as these, there is no
black or white answers. There is a large gray area involved in answering
those questions that the law is supposed to cover. Within this paper it
will be shown that there are three ideas working against the practice of
euthanasia. For one, America is not ready to allow any human being to
take an innocent, and in some cases a guilty individual from this world,
whether it be his/her own or another. The second idea is that it is too
difficult to determine if a person will suffer too much in his or her
lifetime to go on living. This idea is held together by the fact that
there is too much gray areas within ethics and that patients or doctors
can not decisively determine whether a live is worth living. The third
idea is that the "law" that determines whether a life is "worth living"
is too vague and allows for too many shaky judgments to be made. Because
of these reasons, euthanasia should not be allowed to be practiced as
freely as it is in the United States.

One argument against the complete legalization of euthanasia is that the
people of America are strongly opposed to the killing of human beings
(and in some cases, animals). This can be proven through examples in
history in which citizens of the U.S. protested and sometimes even
became violent when the taking of a life was allowed by the law. In one
of these cases, the subject being allowed to die suffered even more
because of the group that was protesting. This case involved three
monkeys that were suffering because of a disease they were born with.
They could barely eat and were not living full lives in any way. Whether
euthanasia should have been practiced is not the issue, the issue is how
large groups of people are not ready for euthanasia to be legalized in
the U.S. The group that was protesting the practice of the "monkey
euthanasia" continued their protest outside of the laboratory until the
monkeys died slowly of their sickness. As one can see, even when great
suffering is involved, euthanasia is not an accepted alternative. This
is not the only instance when animal rights activists protested the
practice of euthanasia on animals. Robert E. Armstrong, a veterinarian
that puts animals to sleep, also advocates, in the article "The World is
Going to the Dogs", that it is wrong that stray dogs are killed at the
rate they are in America. The citation of a veterinarian against a
practice he is involved in displays how even the taking of an animals
life is not accepted my America. If the people of America are not ready
for the killing of animals, it is very possible that they are not ready
for human euthanasia.

In the second argument against euthanasia, the example of abortion
demonstrates what might happen if the practice of euthanasia is allowed
to continue. Although abortion is a separate and unique controversy in
itself, there are parallels between the issue and that of euthanasia.
The most obvious of similarities is that they both involve the ending of
a life (or a life to be in the case of abortion). Also, both include the
question of whether the life that is being snuffed out has something to
offer the world, or if the life has something to receive from living on.
Since it has been shown that both involve similar ethical and moral
questions, then the consequences America is suffering because of
abortion can be compared to what might happen if euthanasia is allowed
to continue. The problem of the legality of abortion was supposedly
solved in the decision of Roe v. Wade, where the supreme court ruled
that the constitution guarantees a woman the right to have an abortion
performed. That was in 1973 and over twenty years later the controversy
is flaming on at full force. The opponents of abortion have become more
and more violent as the years have gone by. Prolife advocates have
lined up in front of abortion clinics not allowing patients to enter and
doctors to exit. In one instance, the blood of an animal was thrown on a
woman who was about to receive an abortion. In 1994, Paul J. Hill, an
opponent of abortion, murdered a physician because that physician was
performing abortions. That murder took place over twenty years after the
supreme court ruling. Since the ruling on euthanasia took place in 1988,
it is possible that the worst in the debate on euthanasia is yet to
come. What might happen over the next twenty years concerning the
controversy over euthanasia? No one can tell if euthanasia will cause
the same problems as abortion did. But because euthanasia involves the
same ethical questions as abortion, similar problems may arise. For that
very reason, the law on euthanasia should be modified to restrict its
practice, so the risk of future euthanasia related violence is lowered.

By now the question that may arise is "how is euthanasia allowed to be
practiced today in the United States by the law, how is that law too
vague, and how does it allow for shaky judgments?" The third idea of
this paper covers that question. The law concerning euthanasia is very
complicated because it has to distinguish euthanasia from homicide and
suicide. Because of the complexity of the law, it is difficult to please
everyone. In his article "Demythologizing Natural Human Rights", Delos
B. McKown states when speaking of euthanasia, <*>. In this article,
McKown goes on to explain how because justice does not satisfy everyone,
the law on euthanasia needs to be changed to fit the needs of the people
of America at the time. Due to the changing of the law, the result is a
very complex law that often does not take every factor into account. The
most important aspect of euthanasia that the law does not take into
account is the competence of the patient. American Against Human
Suffering describes the law as <*>. Allowing any patient to receive
euthanasia is dangerous. There is no black and white area that says
whether a life is worth living. How can a patient who could be simply
depressed because they are expected to die by the judge whether they
have something to offer life or if life has something to offer them? To
account for patients that are not of sound mind and body, one would
expect a safeguard such as the family being allowed to intervene. But,
the law states that families only need to be notified of the patients
request of death. The family is allowed to persuade the patient not to
go through with the procedure of death, but they are not allowed to
persuade the authorities. If the patient is not competent and/or is
mentally or emotionally unstable, how is that patient to be persuaded.
In the case that the patient is incompetent to make that decision, the
family should be allowed to intervene and persuade the doctors or other
authorities. When this law was merely an act that was looking for
support, the existing sponsors <*>. This demonstrates how the act is
considered an act that is full of wholes that is not supported by the
majority of politicians. If politicians can not find enough support of
euthanasia among the people of America, there must be some sort of
consensus that the existing safety standards and practices concerning
euthanasia are not adequate enough.


Currently, euthanasia has little restrictions on its practice. A patient
can request to have his/her life ended and the doctor and the family has
little to say about that request. When there is a life at stake as there
is in the case of euthanasia, the family, the doctor, and a counselor
should be involved in the decision. Because the law does not provide
these safeguards, euthanasia should not be allowed to exist as it does.
Another reason for ceasing the practice of euthanasia as it is stated
previously is the consequences America may suffer because of euthanasia.
Abortion is an example of what has happened when the ending of another's
life was allowed. Because euthanasia could possibly cause the same
problems as abortion did, it is not worth keeping euthanasia in
existence. By eliminating free practice of euthanasia (by making higher
restrictions on euthanasia), the risk of violent and destructive
euthanasia protests would be lowered. In closing, only one question need
be asked. Is it worth losing lives to violent protests just to follow a
few others to lose their lives to euthanasia?








































<ICLEUSMRQ0034.1>

Sixyear old Amy came bouncing in the door from school one winter
afternoon. She followed usual routing during those winter months of
watching television because it was too cold to go outside and play with
her friends. While Amy began flipping channels, her mother was in the be
drooms gathering laundry. Suddenly, she heard a scream and a couple of
seconds later she was comforting her obviously very upset daughter.
Amy's mother questioned her to try and understand what had upset her so
much. Amy took a great deal of time to try and express what she had seen
on television. After her mother heard the horrid details of the
television execution of a death row inmate that her daughter had just
witnessed on public television, she was mortified. When she talked to
other parents about what had happened, many expressed their concern and
disbelief that this had been on television. Others were convinced that
the news station had every right to televise such an event. The
television station itself felt that it had the right to televise this
execution with the justification and reasoning that not allowing them to
do so infringed on their first amendment right. However, this reasoning
is weak in its presentation. The argument that executions should be
televised, specifically in the case of KQED, is established as an issue
of consequence and is not a strong argument because the support for the
claim is not as concrete as the information and support presented by the
opponents to the subject.

In an attempt to make a strong case, the supporters of television
executions have failed to give sufficient reasoning that justifies their
claim. The argument presented consists of one main point that by not
allowing the television station KQED to televise an execution publicly,
the rights of their station to present information is being hindered.
They also feel as if their First Amendment right is being infringed
upon. This point is what their whole case is being based on and their
argument does not go into any greater detail on this particular angle.
The issue in the eyes of those arguing for the televising of executions
is not a matter of consequence. The television station sees it as a
matter of value because they are being prevented from doing their job ef
fectively. As KQED states, <*>. This is a matter of value because for
them this is either a right or wrong situation. The journalists argue
for the right to present the information they want to televise. They do
not want to share any possible bad consequences that could result
because the only concern that they have at this time is how televising
this execution will effect their ratings. This is not a valid argument
because only one aspect is being considered and is therefore not a valid
argument.

A specific instance that yields what could happen if the executions were
to be televised was presented by the opponents to this idea. The case
used is that of the last public hanging in Owensboro, Kentucky of Rainey
Bethea in 1936. <*>. By using this example, the opponents have presented
a strong point as to why executions should not be able to be viewed by
the public in an unsupervised setting. They feel that these executions
should remain in the confines of the execution facility so as not to
cause an increase in violence. The opposition to the determination of
station KQED presents the consequences that would result from this
action taking place. their argument is more thoroughly defined,
presented, and clarified with a resulting consequence. Those who oppose
the televising of executions have made one main claim that presents a
consequence that would result from showing the public what goes on
behind the closed doors of the execution room. Over the years society
has established the idea that violence influences other modes of
violence. The main point that the opponents have made is that by
allowing others to view this event some other form of violence would
result. Sherman states one reason that public executions are no longer
done to support his reasoning and the feelings of others who oppose his
idea. He stated, <*>. These are concrete reasons and resulting
consequences that would come about as a result of televising executions.

The reasoning used by KQED and those that support the public televising
of executions is weak for one main reason. This reason is that their
main focus of attack has turned into a debate about the death penalty
and not about whether this is infringing on their specific rights. In
all the sources I consulted, the opponents continually talked about what
would result. One point that needs to be brought to the readers
attention is a fact that Sherman brings up in his article; he states
that <*>. Some see the result of watching this on television as a good
thing. They think it would wake America up and make them realize what it
is they are actually voting for when they pass such things as the death
penalty. Others view this experience as a bad thing. This is one reason
why the members of the fight to let KQED televise the execution of the
death row inmate have established this issue as one of value. They could
have strengthened the argument by elaborating on the strongest point
that they have made in their claim. 

Watching executions on television will be both wellreceived and
rejected by those who choose to watch these events. Those who would view
this specific execution and others in the future are not the only ones
who have opinions about this idea. One point is made by pat Clark,
director of Death Penalty Focus, a California antideath penalty group.
She insisted that if executions are televised, <*>. 

An opposing view made by Sherman, the author of the article "Pictures At
an Execution", makes this point of reason weak by presenting a valid
counterpoint. Jonathan Sherman stated, <*>. According to Jill Smolowe,
<*>. 

The story of Amy and her mother is a hypothetical situation. However, if
KQED and the proponents of televised executions have their way in court,
then Amy's story could become reality. The reasoning they use does not
support a strong argument because it is not as concrete as the argument
presented by the opponents to the case. If the proponents had made a
stronger case, then the argument could be taken more seriously by the
reader.

















<ICLEUSMRQ0035.1>

<*>. Sadly enough more than 200,000 women in the United States endure
the above procedure every year. Or "endure" the right word? For in
reality the procedure is not one of necessity for more ninetyeight
percent of those women, but instead is performed upon request as their
"simple" solution to a complex problem. The procedure, abortion, is
being performed at a rate which has been continually on the rise for
years. Although the number of abortions performed is rising, it is not
becoming any more of a socially accepted solution to unwanted
pregnancies. In fact the abortion debate has become one of the hottest
issues in America today. On the one side are those who refer to
themselves as prochoice. This liberal group believes it is a woman's
constitutional right to privacy that allows her to do what she wants
with her body when she wants to do it. Much to the contrary, the
conservative prolifers believe that every human being has a
constitutional right to life, and it is the government's responsibility
to protect and ensure that right. Whichever position is taken, however,
<*>. Just what is the moral decision, though? Can one really justify an
innocent child being denied a chance at life as moral? And is it moral
for doctors who have been sworn to abide by the Hippocratic Oath to turn
their backs to that oath and perform abortions? The answer to the two
aforementioned questions is a resounding no. Abortion cannot be
justified as a moral act either on the part of the woman or the doctor
because in essence it is the senseless killing of an innocent human
life.

In order to prove that abortion is morally wrong, prolife activists
have first had to prove that it does indeed involve the killing of a
human life. While the aspect of religion can play a key role in this
proof, a biological approach serves as much more tangible evidence.
Seeing as most doctors who perform abortions will not do so until at
least the sixth week of pregnancy, many prolifers put a great deal of
emphasis on determining exactly what attributes the unborn child has up
until this stage of development. As stated by Daniel Calahan in his book
on the morality of abortion, the unborn child is equipped with the follo
wing by the sixth week after conception: <*>. What this in essence means
is that this unborn body is growing, breathing, and functioning inside
the body of another. In other words it not only is beginning to take
human form, but is also taking on all aspects of human life. Biological
proofs such as these have been enough, indeed, to help Louisiana pass
its antiabortion law declaring, <*>, and to convince many others that
the fetus is alive and abortion, therefore, murder.

Once it has been established that this being is indeed human and living,
the next step is to prove that it is a separate individual entity from
the woman carrying it. This must be done in order to refute any argument
that prochoice activists have stating that this unborn human life is
part of its mother's body and, therefore, be subject to whatever
decision the woman decides to make in regard to her own body. In this
proof biological aspects are once again consulted. According to Germain
Grisez an associate professor at Georgetown University, <*>. Also
supporting the fact that the unborn child is in fact separate from the
woman in which it resides as opposed to being the property of that woman
are the comments of Daniel Callahan in his book Abortion: Law, Choice,
and Morality. In this book he states, "*. As if this evidence were not
enough to support the claim that the woman and child are separate
entities from the moment of conception, there is more. Dr A.W.Liley,
known as the father of fetology by righttolifers asserts, <*>. This
evidence from reputable people in society compounded with an array of
other support serves to prove that a woman has no right to deny her
child of life because it is not her body she is affecting, but that of a
separate human person.

With all of these biological proofs readily available it can be shown
that although the fetus is dependent upon its mother in order to live,
it is alive as well as human. Furthermore, it is an individual entity.
Knowing this one can rightly assert that to abort this fetus is to kill
a living human being. This is more commonly known as murder, which
without a doubt is legally and morally wrong.

After the morality of abortion in itself is examined, further
questioning may be utilized in regard to the morality of the doctors who
play a hand in the abortion procedure. The question of morality comes
forth here due to each doctor's signing of the Hippocratic Oath. The
purpose of this oath is to ensure that doctors put all emphasis on the
sanctity of human life and the efforts to preserve it. A direct quote
taken form the oath itself states, <*>. Is it not then morally wrong for
any doctor to go back on that oath and perform an abortion no matter
what one believes to be the beginning of human life? In response to this
question Dr Elizabeth Hanley suggests that doctors like herself do have
a <*>. This support coming directly from a reputable doctor serves as
strong evidence for those opposed to abortion. While their main claim
continues to lie in the mere fact that the morality behind the procedure
itself is nonexistent, this focus on the doctor's responsibility to
preserve life whenever possible can play an important role in
strengthening prolifers' arguments.

<*>. The above assertion from Daniel Callahan describes to the letter
the abortion debate in American society. The disagreement has been clear
for decades, and the two sides are speaking out louder and stronger
every year. Each side has its own set of values and beliefs and the fact
that those values conflict causes each side to rethink what they believe
and hold onto those beliefs as tight as possible. For this reason a
solution does not seem to be close at hand. The question will clearly re
main: do a woman's rights have precedence over those of the unborn
child? Is that the moral decision? These questions will probably never
be answered to the satisfaction of all involved for <*>, however, <*>.
You can't legislate morality.




















<ICLEUSMRQ0036.1>

The United States Constitution guarantees every American citizen the
right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Medical technology
provides each of us a spectrum of treatments that runs the gamut from
genetic testing and screening to a prescription to cure a common
infection. According to a common cliche, there are only two things that
are sure in this life: death and taxes, yet we constantly search for
ways to escape taxes, at least for now. With advances in medical
technology, we similarly attempt to escape death, at least for now.
Medical improvements provide us with a sense of security regarding our
own fallibility to disease and illness. We find it surprising, perhaps
even shocking, when someone dies from anything other than old age. We
expect that when we get sick, the doctor will make us better. The
doctor's own Hippocratic oath lends itself to the preservation of life
at what appears to be any cost, a cost that threatens the economy and
forces discussions of both health care and insurance for the care we are
increasingly coming to expect as right. We focus our discussions on
money rather than on our assumptions about the value of life. Life is
considered unquestionable, but I would like to give it more scrutiny.

The medical community derives its existence solely on the preservation
of life. <*>. This results in diagnostic methods to identify individuals
that are predisposed to a particular disease and treatment practices
focusing on the symptoms of those sick individuals rather than seeking
answers to eliminate the causes of these diseases. Examples of diseases
where the primary focus is the treatment of symptoms to artificially
postpone death are Cancer, Aids, and Polycystic Kidney Disease (PKD).

PKD is one of the most common human genetically determined diseases.
<*>. This sounds exciting to those individuals with the disease but it
does not eliminate the disease. On the contrary, it gives the disease
more opportunity to affect the generations to come because the
individuals with the disease survive longer and can pass the disease on
to more individuals. There are two forms of the gene that cause PKD. The
dominant form of the gene has an incidence of 1 in 1000. The recessive
form of the gene has an estimated incidence of 1 in 10000 to 1 in 40000.
Charles Darwin's theory of evolution regarding the survival of the
fittest would indicate that the gene pool of the population would have a
much smaller incidence of PKD if medical science were not postponing the
death of the individuals with this disease. Assuming individuals with
the dominant gene would have died at an early age without the assistance
of modern medicine, they would not have had an opportunity to procreate
and therefore the dominant genes would not have been passed on.

Genetic counselors are failing to provide their insight to patients they
serve. This is disgraceful given the fact that these counselors observe
the results of their analysis daily whereas the patients more than
likely will only have one occasion t decide what they should do. Carol
Heimer, in her review of Charles Bosks' All God's Mistakes: Genetic
Counseling in a Pediatric Hospital, says that genetic counselors do
three main things. First, they study the relation between genotypes and
phenotypes, attempting to determine the genetic basis of particular
physical problems and to predict likely manifestation of genetic
anomalies. Second, they try to provide answers about the likelihood of
bearing a child with a genetic problem. Third, they try to say whether
some particularly anomaly seems to be genetically based instead of being
an accident of gestation or birth.

She observes that <*>. Charles Bosk quotes a parent saying, <*>. I see
no honor to life in this parent's selfish act.  Why should we bother
obtaining genetic information, the basic codes of life, if not to seek a
better understanding of the unborn child's future life? If the parent is
prepared for all the efforts necessary to care for their own child who
may have a genetic defect then by all means adopt a child already born
with a genetic defect rather than risk the life of their genetic child.

For illnesses that are not genetically based we need only turn to
familiar medical treatment like antibiotics. When a doctor prescribes
antibiotics for a viral infection in your finger from a cut you didn't
keep clean, like your mother told you to, the doctor provides a ten day
prescription. When the pain goes away after two or three days and the
swelling goes down, do you continue to take the medication at the
prescribed time and dosage? If you do not take all the medication but
instead save the little bottle for the next time you get a scrape so you
don't have to go to the doctor then you are making the same mistake many
uniformed people make. The antibiotics kill most of the bacteria in the
first couple days but a few of the stronger, more resistant bacteria
remain in your system. If you do not finish the medication according to
Doctors' orders, these bacteria survive and are now able to recognize
that antibiotic. The next time it comes around the bacteria may have
become immune to it. Not only that but since your body is now mostly
empty of bacteria, the resistant strains multiply and make it more
difficult to kill off the next time you get an infection. Eventually the
antibiotic no longer works and the doctor must use an alternative,
perhaps stronger, antibiotic treatment. Now, Doctors are finding strains
of bacteria that do not respond to antibiotic treatment at all. This
problem is compounded by the fact that not all illnesses that Doctors
prescribe antibiotics for are caused by bacteria because they fail to
take the time to test for bacteria.

Scientists are inventing new methods to treat viral infections. Do you
think they will be able to keep up with the rate of natural mutations of
diseases? I'm sure you've heard of the Aids virus and all the effort and
money spent on developing AZT, a drug that treats the symptoms but not
the disease itself. There are many other examples of mutated diseases
out there. One example is the Hantavirus, a rodentborne RNA virus. <*>.
The human immune system is a highly advance defense mechanism that has
developed over thousands years by surviving constant attacks from the
germs and bacteria that we are constantly exposed to. It is constantly
doing battle with thousands of bacteria and germs that are always in
your body (even when you are not showing any symptoms of sickness). We
are presenting a continually weaker immune system to the battlefront by
keeping the individuals with these weak systems alive and allowing them
to pass on their immune system to their children. These genetic traits
become more prevalent as individuals fail to die as a result of their
defects which places future generations in the poor position of having
to deal with more defects. This includes common, relatively minor,
irritants like asthma and non 20/20 vision.

The cost of health care in America continues to skyrocket and everyone
is blaming the insurance companies because it costs an arm and a leg to
pay for a minor injury to a finger. More importantly, we are squandering
limited resources on temporary symptom treatment. We spend millions of
dollars a day on Cancer, PKD, AIDS and other terminal patients and
pretend that all is well when death has been pushed away for an hour, a
day, a month or even a year in the name of life. Symptom treatment
exacerbates the problem by forcing more people into the medical system
to keep them alive to eventually die of old age anyway. Our efforts to
delay our inevitable death merely serve to degrade the value of the life
we hold so dear. Life is precious only when we know it can be lost at
any moment and we need to shift our focus to a broader view of life
rather than focus on the needs of one sick individual.



















































<ICLEUSMRQ0037.1>

Does a terminally ill person with only a few months to live have the
right to choose between a seemingly peaceful death at the hand of their
doctor, or must they continue living in pain? Also, if this situation is
accepted, does this mean that other cases, not as severe, might also be
considered for this option? The issue of assisted suicide and euthanasia
is now being addressed by society in response to the medical practices
of Dr Kevorkian. when his case was first released to the public, people
immediately began to form their opinions based on religious views,
personal moral beliefs, and what they believe a physician should and
should not be able to do. Supporters of assisted suicide and euthanasia
believe that Kevorkian is performing acts of mercy by relieving patients
of their agonizing pain. While opponents believe that Kevorkian is
trying to play God by deciding when and if to end someone's life. Still,
others believe that the acceptance of these practices might cause a
breakdown of the faith i doctors that people now hold. Supporters'
arguments have great strengths in their reliance of the belief that
Kevorkian is doing the right thing by aiding patients who are suffering,
however, the neglection to name the consequences which could result if
these practices are accepted is a definite weakness in the argument
because the reader is not fully informed. On the other hand, opponents
have a definite strength in the fact that they present the probable
consequences, allowing the reader to see where this issue is possibly
going in the future. But, in their attempt to abolish these practices,
they seem to forget that the people involved are dying and in pain.
Thus, both of these parties have definite strengths and weaknesses in
the reasoning of their arguments which helps to adequately debate their
differing views on Dr Kevorkian and his medical practices.

Suicide is thought of as to be very painful and messya thought which
deters many people from following through with this deadly act.
Opponents of assisted suicide and euthanasia believe that its acceptance
would no longer make suicide seem such a frightening process. Instead it
would be something that one would no longer have to do themselves. These
practices could become too commonly used and no longer for the sole
purpose of ending the sufferings of the terminally ill. It could easily
become a solution for people suffering from severe depression or those
diagnosed with HIV or AIDS, who want to save themselves from the pain
that they will later endure. This would give people who are afraid of
death an easy way out, and not giving them a chance for recovery. A
person would also lose the option of changing his/her mind once they had
the time to assess the situation better. The emphasis on the possible
consequences is a definite strength in this argument because it makes
people think that there are more disadvantages than there are
advantages, thus they are likely to reject these practices. One example
of a disadvantage is that someone upon hearing they have a terminal
illness or AIDS may decide immediately that they want to end their
"pain," which might be years away, thus they lose out on what is left of
their lives. Herbert Hendin wrote, <*>. This strongly supports the case
against euthanasia and assisted suicide because it portrays its
acceptance as a very contagious method of solving problems. Debra
Saunders wrote, <*>. This thought is very significant because these
practices begin with only the most severe situations being considered.
However, with each acceptance the standards are pushed a little further
back until euthanasia and assisted suicides would no longer be used
solely to relieve the pain of the terminally ill. This possible
consequence causes people to think twice before accepting and supporting
Dr Kevorkian and his methods. A weakness in this argument which develops
is that some of the reasoning seems a bit steep, like the idea of
suicide becoming as popular as fast food. Thus some people will
definitely be turned off by this argument.

Another argument against Dr Kevorkian and his medical ethics is that the
acceptance of these methods would not allow a better solution for death
to be found. Hendin wrote, <*>. This belief is significant because
people are looking for an easy solution due to the fact that they are af
raid of death, and they don't know how else to deal with it They are
giving up on the rest of their lives thinking that euthanasia or a
suicide would be the easiest thing for everyone involved. This makes it
seems as if people are being taken advantage of by Kevorkian because
immediate relief appears to be what is best. Instead of providing these
options, we must work at improving the care and support that is offered.
Updating the hospice care and the drugs that are used to control the
pain would allow patients to live longer and with less pain. This is
important because this would let people be presented with other options,
which could allow them to lead their normal lives and prolong the years
that they have left. This is significant because no one likes to think
that they are going to die, so extending one's life allows people time
to simply enjoy what time they have left, or it might give them the hope
that maybe there will be a cure before they die. It is essential for
this country to improve i the care of our sick and dying, which needs to
begin now before assisted suicide and euthanasia become the only
solutions.

The third argument opposing Dr Kevorkian is that if his practices are
accepted, then it will go against everything that a doctors stands for.
This is a very strong argument because if the faith in doctors is
shaken, it will revolutionize the whole medical profession. The
statement <*> is what allows us, as patients, to continually put our
lives in the hands of doctors, who we believe will do everything they
can to keep us alive. A physician is not God, nor is he/she capable of
any acts of God. However, because of our basic belief and trust in the
medical profession, we continually trust our most precious possession,
our very existence, to another human being. The opponents against Dr
Kevorkian believe that euthanasia and assisted suicides might <*>. A
physician can no longer claim to be in the business of saving lives if
he/she partakes in these activities, for it goes against the Hippocratic
Oath that is the very foundation of the medical profession. As Elana
Muller Garcia wrote, <*>. This argument is very strong with relatively
no weaknesses because placing our complete faith in a fellow human being
takes a lot of courage on our parts. Thus, if our trust is shaken it
will not be as easy for us to allow physicians to do their jobs.                                                      

However, supporters of Kevorkian believe that he is in fact doing his
job by ending the sufferings of his patients. In Dr Kevorkian's own
words he wrote, <*>. His belief in himself and his work is a great
strength in his argument. After all, how can someone expect others to
believe and support something which they do not fully support
themselves. Kevorkian's belief in his work is so strong that he would
risk being thrown into jail for the sole purpose of continuing with his
mercy killings. This type of behavior can be seen in the works of Martin
Luther King, Jr who also was arrested for standing by his beliefs. Today
he is considered to be one of the greatest American heroes; thus does
this mean that someday Kevorkian will be admired for also standing by
his beliefs? This argument in support of Kevorkian is very strong
because it makes people think that if one man believes so deeply about
something, the maybe it is something for them to also support.

Both sides of this issue have strong and weak reasoning behind their
arguments. The supporters and opponents of euthanasia and assisted
suicide believe very strongly in their differing causes and present very
strong reasoning in their claims. Therefore, one must analyze the
differing views between these two extremes. It is essential that society
examine these arguments and then decide on what is acceptable and what
is not acceptable before it gets out of control. This debate is very
important and worth analysis because there is not a way to compromise
the end result. As Reich wrote, <*>. This thought is what causes society
to be more willing to accept doctors helping the terminally ill to die,
as opposed to assisting merely a depressed person, who has the chance of
recovery. Therefore, we need to come to some sort of decision and find a
median to this matter while it is still focused around the works of one
man.














































<ICLEUSMRQ0038.1>

RIIINNNGGG!! The bell to begin the third period loudly sounded its
warning. Tommy ran frantically to his class. He was late, and he knew
what would be in store for him when he arrived. As he opened the door to
the classroom, his teacher met him. "Thomas, you are late," he bellowed.
"Step into the corridor with me," he continued.

Tommy, with his head hung low responded, "Yes, sir," and followed the
teacher into the hall. Both walked out of the room, the teacher with
paddle in hand. Moments later, they returned, and Tommy, with tears
welling in his eyes more from embarrassment than physical pain, took he
seat.

Are you from the old school? Did your teacher have a paddle  and use
it? Were you a member of the class which bought its new teacher her
first paddle? If you attended a school which still utilized corporal
punishment, you probably know like Tommy,  maybe you were a tommy  and
you probably have a fairly strong opinion on corporal punishment in
schools. However, if you do not have a strong position, reading
arguments from the opponents of corporal punishment will not help you
much. The opponents' argument is ineffective because of ambiguous
terminology and a wavering position.

The opponents of corporal punishment confuse their readers by failing to
define corporal punishment with any decisiveness. The authors who define
the term do not apply the same definition, several of the authors fail
to make any attempt at defining. In his article "Classroom management
and discipline alternatives to corporal punishment: the Norwegian
example," Tom Jambor defines corporal punishment as <*>. In "Spare the
rod: A continuing controversy," Frank A. Johns and Robert H. MacNaughton
say that, <*>. Still other authors make a claim against the use of
corporal punishment, but never say what corporal punishment is. How can
one make an effective argument without establishing what, exactly, one
is fighting against? Without a clearly defined term, the argument
against the use of corporal punishment in schools is rendered
ineffective. Unless the reader knows exactly what is being fought, the
reader cannot make a firm decision to heed or to disregard the pleas of
opponents to corporal punishment.

Even if definition of the focal term had been clearly achieved, the
opponents to the educational use of corporal punishment would have
fallen short of a strong argument. It is common, when making an
argument, to take a stand on a position and then defend that position
unteeteringly. The opponents of corporal punishment do not take that
decisive stand, though. Time and again, the opponents state that
corporal punishment is incorrigible. Then, as if in the next breath,
they contradict themselves. In an article about alternatives to corporal
punishment (which he does not define), Thomas Diamantes cites a study on
the effects of corporal punishment. In reference to that study by
Heitzman, Diamantes says that <*> and he goes on  in fact, in the same
paragraph  to say that <*>.

The opponents also vacillate on the consequences of corporal punishment.
Some authors make reference to behavioral reactions to corporal
punishment, but none is decisive. Most of the opponents merely dismiss
corporal punishment as bad, and list alternatives to its use.

How is it, then, that anyone would choose to believe the opponents'
argument? What might the opponents do to strengthen their argument?
First, many factors contribute to the reader's perception and own
opinion. Whether that reader ever received or witnessed a paddling has a
big impact on the reader's reaction to the use of corporal punishment.
The reader's own definition of corporal punishment also plays a pivotal
role in the effectiveness of the argument. If an author's definition
does not correspond with the reader's, confusion can result and the
message of the argument can be lost. In order to strengthen their
argument, the opponents should agree upon one definition, and use it.
Taking a stand and defending it firmly would also add to the
believability of the argument. 

Though the story of Tommy is a conjecture, it could be coming true for
some Jane or John in school this very day. As of 1988 corporal
punishment was only outlawed in twelve states, twenty major metropolitan
areas, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and on military bases
abroad. The opponents to corporal punishment seem to make the statement
that they will continue fighting until its use is totally abandoned. If
they fail to make a stronger case, their fight will never be won, or
will not be soon coming.

So, were you a tommy? Will your son or daughter, nephew or niece be a
recipient of corporal punishment? Until the opponents come together and
make a firm, decisive argument, many more schoolage children can be
subjected the paddle.





































<ICLEUSMRQ0039.1>


TV programs ranging from violent cartoons like <*> and <*>, to sultry
sitcoms as <*> and <*> to the sexually controversial one hour drama of
<*>, all prove the decline of censorship. Censorship is a policy of
control or standards upon something institution, in our case television
and the materials within that are harmful to children. The advocates for
censorship know that an increase in censorships is needed, for the
children's sake, our future. The advocates for censorship see how
impressionable young people are and realize that what they view effects
their behavior whether it's positive or negative.

By observing the callous responses to offensive acts of violence and sex
by today's parents (victims of the previous drop in censorship)
advocates can foresee the effects of current television upon today's
children if censorship doesn't increase. For the networks will continue
to become more offensive every season, as long as there is no one to
stop them from 'pleasing their audience', so they say. Through case
studies and the analysis of shows that are products of a lack of
censorship, the proponents for censorship effectively prove how the
decline in censorship is effecting America's youth. By using current
examples of how America is becoming numb to the sex and violence on
television due to the lack of censorship, the advocates make the future
consequences upon today's children appear to be more realistic. Together
they shout that we need censorship.

Children are very impressionable, the information that is instilled into
them, whether it be good or bad becomes a part of them. By the advocates
analytically presenting the shows that are infecting the minds of the
youth they demonstrate how these programs effect the minds and lives of
today's youth. Psychologist, Aletha Huston conducted a study at
Pennsylvania State University in 1970; found in the article: Sex,
Violence and the Tube in U.S. News & World Report, where two groups of
four year old children were shown halfhour television shows for three
days a week for four weeks.In one group the children viewed violent
superhero cartoons, the other group viewed plain and boring programs.
After each show the group that viewed the violent programs were prone to
hit and throw objects. By using a case study conducted in 1970 the
supporters of censorship strengthen their argument about how
impressionable young people are because programs in 1970, while maybe
not all fit for children, were still censored ten times more than the
shows of today. Thus posing the thought: if some shows in the seventy's
could produce such an effect on children imagine how the shows today are
effecting the lives of today's children.
Violent kid shows such as the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers provide a one
minute speech about how violence isn't the best way to solve a conflict,
yet throughout their halfhour show all they do is use karate punches
and kicks to solve all their problems. By the advocates for censorship
depicting this show, they deminish the strength of that one minute
speech bout non violence (not that it was much in the first place) and
unveil the show for what it really is; just another show that is
promoting violence in the mind's of children that needs to be censored,
but just a little more caniving that other shows. As a child grows,
action is not the only thing that begins to peak his/her interest once
the birds and the bees become a part of life, the world becomes a
different place. The proponents for censorship are aware of this and
continue to analyze the shows that are aimlessly thrown on the air to
demonstrate how they effect children and why censorship is needed.

Grace Under Fire is one of the latest hit sitcoms by ABC where a
divorced mom is ready to date again and have sex whenever she can; one
of her influential, rather clean comment that young people would
register by viewing her show would be: <*>. By using this show as an
example the supporters of censorship show how the networks have lost all
regard for purity and beauty in the department of sex and the influence
it has on children. How is a child who is just learning about the birds
and the bees suppose to react from a show engrossed with comments such
as these? The proponents didn't even have to analyze ABC's Play Boy/Play
Girl show because the network let everything out in the open, literally.
<*>. While in the first 55 seconds of the premiere show bare breast and
buttocks were shown. The advocates for censorship realize that this
program not only discusses sex, similar to Grace under Fire only more
sultry, but they vividly show the acts of sex. By using NYPD Blue the
advocates for censorship prove that censorship is needed on television
because whether it's 9:00 PM or 8:30am it's still public television and
content of that nature will effect any body's mind whether you're a
child or an adult.

Opponents to this issue might pose the question: if a parent did not
want their children to view a particular show it would seem logical for
the parent to simply turn the television off; if it were only that
simple. By the advocates utilizing information about censorship in
protection with the children they make a claim that children come first.
Due to their views, a proponent might rebuttal that statement with the
fact that some parents use the television as the babysitter, not
monitoring what their children see, so should the child be punished for
the negligence of the parent. Another rebuttal could be stated as: just
because the parent says no doesn't mean the child won't watch TV behind
his/her parents back yet should a child be punished for life by the
effects of television for mistakes of youthfulness.

The advocates for censorship realize that television is a popular and
very impressionable part of society. Because children may model whatever
may seem positive, television has a lot of power over how a child
behaves. Supporters of censorship realize this as well and will continue
to fight to increase censorship so that what a child models is truly a
positive behavior.

The advocates for censorship realize that is censorship does not
increase the networks will continue to push the levels of sultry
contents on television to please their audience and obtain their
ratings. By using recent examples of how the government allows the
networks to do whatever they please with the contents of their shows and
how people are becoming numb to the provocative material in shows today,
the advocates for censorship make their argument: that television needs
to be censored, well known and proven. The proponents can see how
powerful the networks are and how set they are on not increasing
censorship. By how the networks manipulated the government with the
constitution, into not even wanting to stand up to them to regulate
stronger standards for television.

Walter Berns, the author of the article Learning To Live With Sex And
Violence in the magazine National Review viewed a Senate Committee
responding to parents about violence on prime time television. The idea
of censorship was out of the question because the senators were told by
Jack Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association of America
that the government has no business prescribing what people read, listen
to, or watch. Because of this, instead of letting the networks use the
first amendment as their excuse, Senator Paul Simon and his committee
members accepted a promise from network executives to place warning
labels alike those on cigarette products upon their shows. <*>. Even
though the government doesn't always show it they are suppose to have a
sense of power and authority. By showing how the networks have so little
regard for that status that the government won't even stand up to the
networks on an issue for they know can't win. The proponents prove just
how serious the networks are about sustaining the current levels of
censorship, as well as acknowledge that if something is not done to
increase censorship, it's inevitable that the networks will destroy the
censorship that is on public television now; and soon one won't be able
to tell the difference between public and cable television.

Providing examples of future consequences that are occurring now in the
present makes warnings such as: if censorship doesn't increase networks
will continue to take the contents of their shows to the limit and soon
beyond, seem more realistic and assist people in taking the claim more
seriously. Today's parents who have served on juries lately can find
nothing offensive with cases such as: the photograph's of Robert
Mapplethorpe's, where one man would urinate into another man's mouth; or
lyrics to rock music that would have shamed the jurors parent's to hear,
back in the day judges would not have even allowed the lyrics to be put
into evidence let alone be heard (<*> the judges used to say). A more
recent Florida jury decided nothing was offensive about men amusing
themselves by grabbing women by the hair, breaking their backs, and
tearing open their vaginas. <*>.

By showing how society is already growing numb to the sex and violence
on television advocates provide a sense of realism to their warning. By
presenting the fact that a man from church can even grow numb to the sex
and violence the advocates imply that this numbing effect is already
occurring, no one is immune to it, and most of all censorship is needed.
Otherwise this cycle of numbing will continue on to no end. The
advocates realize that this numbing cycle hasn't effected all Americans
and if their voices, voices of possible ratings are heard a difference
might be made. One of the main questions asked by Ingrid Groller, author
of the survey Should TV be censored found in the magazine Parents was:
<*>. Of the 97% that responded 66% of the respondents voted for
standards. By the advocates showing that Americans desire standards for
television networks can hear the voices of the people that make up their
ratings; since they won't listen to the ones who make their business and
stop this cycle before it becomes any worse. The advocates realize that
there is a numbing effect that will destroy all of the censorship as we
know it. They also realize that the process has already begun and it
will continue unless voices that the networks will listen to, the voices
of their ratings speak up and stop the cycle.

The advocates for censorship presented a strong argument that was well
supported throughout the paper with case studies, examples from various
programs, and the use of fore shadowing. The advocates effectively prove
that without censorship today's children, our future, will become
tomorrow's television program whether it be good or bad. They also prove
that without censorship the networks will continue to strive to be more
like cable and one day they'll reach it because we've become numb to the
sex and violence on television. But the main claims that without
censorship we won't have the same civilized society as we do now; so for
the children's future and society's as a whole, we need censorship.





<ICLEUSMRQ0040.1>

Ever since a Gregorian monk named Mendal performed several experiments
on pea plants, the field of genetic research has swelled to an
astounding size. Scientists and doctors have pushed their studies to the
point of being material for science fiction stories. It is evident that
genetic research has come a long way from crossbreeding different pea
plants. Advances in genetic research have put modern medicine in the
position to see future, untreatable, hereditary conditions such as
Huntington's Disease. This new knowledge of genetics is leading to a
much more profound discovery. Scientists are now attempting to map the
human genome, which when done will unlock the mysteries of human
genetics and will give doctors the ability not only to eliminate certain
disease carrying genes, but also to manipulate others.

This new genetic research has led to many controversies over the project
to map the human genome and to many debates concerning the ethical
consequences if the research continues. Arguments are framed for both
sides of the issue from not only doctors and scientists, but also from
the layman, as ethical issues are not considered to belong to only a
group of experts, but everyone. To convince readers that genetic
research and its application could be detrimental, one must present a
very strong argument. This argument must contain a large amount of
information as to cover all aspects of the subject and it must refute
any counter arguments. One possible way of presenting the most effective
argument opposing genetic research and its application is by doing three
doings. One should present the history of genetic research and what has
already happened, take the arguments for continuing genetic research and
refute them one by one, and present valid arguments against continuing
genetic research.

When dealing with the history of genetic research one should bring up
eugenics which is the study and methods of improving the species
genetically. Robert Sinsheimer says this subject <*>. This reference to
the Nazis deals with Hitler's plan of genocide and the procreation of
his master race. This obvious atrocity would be effective in an argument
because virtually all people find this example horrifying and would be
skeptical about continuing research into genetics, which already far
surpasses the research Hitler had available to him. There is then the
second part of Sinsheimer's statement which says such "distortions"
would never happen again. However, Sinsheimer brings up the question of
whether humanity could ever be trusted with control over their own
inheritance after the Nazi experience. Although one cannot predict the
future events dealing with genetic research, most readers would be
doubtful of humanity being responsible with its genetic knowledge. This
short history would therefore make a very strong case against furthering
genetic research by showing a consequence that may be similar to
Hitler's experiments.

Going past the history of genetics, one could then refute the arguments
of proponents of genetic research. Proponents of genetic research argue
that the research would be valuable, for it can screen for disease
carrying genes. Author John Maddox says <*>. The first part of this
quote deals with abortion which obviously has many ethical consequences
considering the debates currently going on. The second part requires
more explanation though, which should be presented in ones argument.
What Maddox is saying is that by eliminating potentially harmful genes,
the benefits of those genes may be eliminated also. Citing his example
of the sicklecell gene would be excellent for this argument. While the
gene sometimes causes sicklecell anemia it always causes a resistance
to malaria. Arguing this point of eliminating the beneficial along with
the malevolent would be effective, for genetic research is leading to
this. Also, by eliminating genes, genetic diversity is reduced.

Another argument for genetic research that could be refuted is that the
human genome project is for knowledge only. Again, this can be refuted
and prove useful to an argument against genetic research. Sinsheimer
writes, <*>. This is somewhat true due to the fact that the limited
genetic knowledge already known has been used in crossbreeding plants
and animals. Also, in the case of nuclear technology, that knowledge has
been used for energy and weapons. In some cases the applied knowledge
has had ill effects and it is possible for genetic research to have dire
consequences also.

The possible consequences of genetic research may be the strongest part
of an argument opposing that research. Showing people what could
possibly happen and showing that those consequences may be harmful could
convince a reader that advances in genetics may not be worth what it has
to offer.

One consequences deals with privacy. Arguing over the issue of privacy
would be quite effective against furthering genetic research. George
Annas writes <*>. This brings up information control and the privacy of
those involved. If this genetic information is known what will stop
employers, the military, and insurance companies from discriminating
against certain people. There is already discrimination against people
with AIDS. What will happen if certain groups learn a person's entire
genetic background? This consequence could lead people to be skeptical
about what benefits genetic research has to offer and if those benefits
can offset these possible repercussions. Robert Sinsheimer says the
right to privacy is a necessity. The question is if genetic information
be kept private in <*>. A person's privacy and the possible compromise
of it may sway a reader to see genetic research offers more bad than
good.

One of the strongest and most effective arguments is presenting another
consequence of continuing genetic research. That consequence deals with
how far gene manipulation will be taken. Eliminating disease genes is
far different from manipulating genes for altering personal
characteristics. Again, George Annas view could be used to strengthen
the argument. He states that if genetic research is pursued further it
could lead to <*> and parents may choose how their children will look.
Children may then be seen as commodities, with no rights of their own.

Also a writer should discuss how genetic research is being monitored.
That is, if the research is continued, what precautions are the leaders
of the world taking to prevent harmful consequences. By using Peter
Aldhous's report on the conference sponsored by the National Institute
of Health,  one could strengthen their argument. Aldhous reports on how
several nations met to discuss the ethical issues raised by the human
genome project, but accomplished nothing more than agreeing to meet
again to discuss the issues. The opinions brought up during the
conference were sharply divided. By presenting this, a writer could show
their reader that if the governments of the world cannot control the
research than it should not be done.

All of the things presented here could make for an effective argument
against continuing genetic research. It would show how genetic research
and its application has been harmful in the past, how it could have
harmful consequences if it continued, and it refutes arguments for
genetic research. While no argument is absolute, this one would be very
strong. It is vital that the argument be strong because <*>. An issue
this great should not be taken lightly and if it does have serious
consequences that go along with it, then it should be pursued
cautiously, if at all.























































<ICLEUSMRQ0041.1>

It is Saturday night, about 9.30 p.m., and a small crowd forms outside
the front door of McCormick Hall. Students look at the sidewalk
advertisements of the best parties. What will they be doing there?
Personal experience tells me that they will be drinking, and not just a
small amount, but drinking to get drunk. This scenario could probably
fit the activities outside any dorm at any college on a Friday or
Saturday night. 
Statistics show that nearly 41% of college students are binge drinkers,
which means they consume five or more alcoholic beverages at any give
time. With this in mind, one would realize that any articles written on
the subject of binge drinking on college campuses would contain these
same facts, but presented differently. Who an article is directed to and
what purpose it is meant to serve can change the way in which the writer
interprets the facts. Taking an essay from the Journal of the American
Medical Association (JAMA), which is geared toward mostly researchers
and those in the medical field, as opposed to Newsweek, which appeals to
the general public, a reader can see how this interpretation can greatly
impact the overall effect of the article. In fact, it can even
demonstrate how more popular magazines use their media power to exploit
a topic to increase their readership. The writers for Newsweek and JAMA
utilize context and attitude to describe their two different viewpoints
on the subject of binge drinking, which are brought on by the
differences in audience of the two articles.

The existence of a problem with drinking on todays college campuses is
something that few people would argue with. However, the problem is not
onesided, and therefore must be looked at from different viewpoints.
Studies reported on in JAMA said that while the majority of those
surveyed, 56% or men and 34% of women, were classified as binge
drinkers, there were also a percentage, 9% of men and 14% of women, that
had not consumed alcohol. The writers for the journal give the readers a
complete report. They include statistics on all sides of the issue and
do not just look at those who binge drink. In contrast to this type of
approach to reporting on this issue, Newsweek only looks at the negative
side. They do this by presenting facts that shock the audience and grab
them into reading. They only look at facts that show how much college
students drink, but they do not give the flip side of the issue in that
there is a percentage that does not drink. This approach illustrates to
us how audience has an affect on how an article is written.

Audience is one of the most important factors in determining what an
article will contain. Sometimes adding to that is the writers
assumptions of what the audience will want to hear. In the case of these
two articles the writers assume several things about what their
audiences will want to read, and they also take in to account the types
of people who will be reading the essay. JAMA is very technical, and is
generally read by researchers or those in the medical field. These
people will not be reading the journal for enjoyment, but rather for
educational purposes. So, the authors factbased, no emotion approach is
a very good idea in this situation. They use several statistics that
look at all aspects of the issue, and are reporting based on the results
of a survey. For this reason, the average reader may not find this to be
interesting reading. In contrast, the Newsweek article does come off as
rather intriguing to the general public. It is interesting not only for
its content, but also for its presentation. People are for some reason
drawn to look at the dark side of issues, and this article looks at just
that. The authors give a report that focuses on the bad effects of
college binge drinking. They are making the assumption, by writing this
way, that the general public enjoys reading material that upsets or
angers them. However, making those assumptions is what makes a good
writer. Also, how the author uses rhetoric can decide the reaction of an
audience, and we will look at that.

These two articles differ greatly with respect to physical and social
context. Newsweek writes to appeal to a national audience, while JAMA
writes to attract a very specific audience, and this make for
differences in physical context that are quite obvious and clear. Tables
and charts do not make an essay that is exciting to read, however, they
do help to clarify the text. When readers see detailed charts they know
that this is an article that is well written, clear, and concise. Since
understanding is what an educated audience, with a particular interest
in what they are reading, wants, then the JAMA article has served its
purpose. It uses its physical context, or the way it presents itself to
hook its audience into reading. Newsweek, on the other hand, uses a
different technique to hook it audience. They want to appeal to a wide
variety of people, and keep their interest. Therefore, they use flashy
pictures of drunken college students, and startling statistics in bold
type, such as <*>. This technique catches the readers attention just
enough to keep them reading. This is the purpose of physical context, to
enhance the articles initial appeal to the reading audience.

While physical context is a superficial element in writing, when we look
at social context we see something that is more involved. When looking
at the social context of an article one must look at wording and premade
assumptions. The writers for Newsweek look at binge drinking at
colleges, and they see it as an element in popular culture. The problems
that stem from this subject are really not of concern to them, instead
getting people to read their article is. Drawing the people into reading
is not the problem, as we have seen, but rather keeping their interest.
They accomplish this by concentrating on the darker side of the issue.
Presumptions are made that people like to read about things that are
wrong with society, or that are morally wrong. So, Newsweek looks at the
binge drinkers that cause problems. Statistics are given on the
percentage of college students who: drank on ten or more occasions in
the past thirty days, usually binge when they drink, drink to get drunk,
and were drunk three or more times in the past month. However, they do
not say anything about the percentage of students who do not drink, or
drink but not to get drunk. Instead, the writers tell us stories of
fatal incidents, failing grades, unprotected sex, and drunken brawls.
They want the audience to see this as an uncontrollable problem, but as
any college student can tell you, while all these facts may be true,
they are not uncontrollable. In contrast, the JAMA article paints for
its audience a scientific picture. It is focusing on a detailed study of
the rates and results of binge drinking. This is not the type of article
that a member of the general public would read for leisure, so this more
scientific approach is utilized. The article goes in a definite order
giving us the information in sections. These begin with methods used,
results achieved, and comments stemming from the investigation. The
researchers of this article used a survey at fourteen different colleges
in Massachusetts to gather their data. An important part of JAMA's
approach is that they look at both sides of the issue. The writers give
statistics involving both drinkers and nondrinkers. To compare between
the two, they classified those who had consumed five or more alcoholic
beverages in the past two weeks to those who had not consumed any
alcohol in that time. Also, they only chose those out of the surveyed
that were under the age of twentyone. This extensive explanation of how
the study was conducted is exactly what the readers of JAMA expect. This
technique of explaining in great detail carries on into the next
section. They give the results in every facet of the study, including
those who had consumed alcohol, who had not consumed, who consumed
regularly, even comparisons to surveys given in years past. This kind of
thoroughness is expected by the audience, and the writers know that.
Using social context, the authors can more easily appeal to their
respective audiences and make clearer their opinions.

An author's attitude can completely change the meaning of an essay, but
it can also help to enhance it and make it all the more interesting. It
is obvious in the two articles that I chose, when the authors' attitude
comes into play. The Newsweek piece is highly emotional, and opinions
and personal feelings play a large part. It can be seen from the
beginning of the article the negative tone the authors are taking on the
subject. The third line of the article uses words such as <*>, and in
the first paragraph a story of how some students chipped in for three
kegs of beer, and resold it on a five dollar allyoucandrink basis is
told. This attitude carries over as the writers ask <*>. However, the
JAMA article has no room for opinions or feelings, it is strictly
scientific. A report of this kind calls for nothing but the facts, and
any sort of emotion would serve a negative effect, because it would show
any bias that may exist. 

Audience plays a part in every example of rhetorical site. Closely
analyzing an audience, and making certain assumptions will help a writer
in conveying their message more effectively. Even though the existence
of a binge drinking problem at colleges is not highly contested, it can
be looked at from several different aspects. The authors for Newsweek
and JAMA both have distinct views and audiences. They used the technique
of closely analyzing their readership to write two articles that both
propose valid facts, but do not present them in the same way. 





























<ICLEUSMRQ0042>
According to Xavier Flores, an AIDSprevention counselor of East
Chicago, <*>. However, opponents of his claim, <*>. This controversy
between "comprehensive sex education" and "abstinenceonly education" is
more than recent, yet now opponents of "abstinenceonly" programs in
schools have become enraged over what "abstinenceonly" advocates have
claimed. In following with "abstinenceonly", the rates of sexually
transmitted diseases, AIDS, and pregnancy cases among teenagers would
decrease. Yet, proponents have used illogical reasoning, if not
fallacies, in order to put forth these ideas. On the other hand,
"comprehensive sex education" followers believe that by giving
misinformation, teenagers will not listen to and respect "abstinence
only" proponents and continue to have sex. At the same time, teens will
not being informed of precautionary methods, as offered by
"comprehensive sex education" advocates. Therefore, these advocates are
taking full advantage of their opponents misinformation to gain support
for their cause.

Many of the suggestions that supporters of "abstinenceonly education"
make can be easily refuted with common sense. Pat Socia, "abstinence
only" activist and speaker, demonstrated this when she said, <*>.Socia's
question is misleading since some of the better preventions of pregnancy
ten years ago included birthcontrol pills and hormone injections. Yet,
these lack the ability to stop bodily fluids from being transferred
during sex as do condoms. In addition, a spokesperson for TeenAid,
Inc., an abstinenceonly program, states, <*>. Accordingly, opponents of
"abstinenceonly" argue that most teens know neither of those ideas is
true and since, why should teens even listen to proponents if <*>.
Hence, if teenagers do not listen, the goals of "abstinenceonly"
teaching will not be accomplished.

"Comprehensive sex education" believers have also noted inconclusive
information which was given to teenagers and are using this to cut down
their opponents. "Abstinenceonly" proponents have enthusiastically
looked to a study conducted by Deborah Anne Dawson, a member of the Alan
Guttmacher Institute, from 1986 that showed 14yearolds with prior
contraceptive education had an increase in the odds of starting
intercourse by fifty percent. Yet, they forget to acknowledge that no
other age group reported this same correlation in increase. Proponent
Sullivan also suggested according to a study reported by Project
Respect, an organization that teaches only abstinence, <*>. Opponents
propose that none of these studies have been examined by outside sources
and question whether any would <*>. This is considerable since other
studies have beared this scrutiny. When the San Diego Union examined one
widely reported success story for Project Respect which claimed the rate
of pregnancy in a San Marcos, California, high school dropped from 147
to 20 in two years, they realized that the 147 figure was correct while
the number 20 was "made up". According to additional opponents, this
claim was not based on a realistic study, but one where the high school
principal reported figures of the number of students who admitted to the
counselor that they were pregnant. The opponents of "abstinenceonly"
programs continuously refute others by focusing in on others' mistakes.
Proponents' support has turned into their own fallacies and misfortunes.

Those in favor of only teaching abstinence have also been said by
opponents to be using facile reasoning in order to scare children into
not having sex. Grady WebbWood of Jacksonville, Florida, was taught in
his seventh grade class last year that birth control is inadequate for
preventing teen pregnancy and condoms are useless in preventing the
spread of disease. Also taught in his curriculum was that women who have
abortions are more "prone to suicide" and up to 10 percent of them will
never again conceive. However, according to Grady, <*>. This is a major
concern of opponents. Opponents Peggy Brick and Deborah Roffman suggest
that these <*> will eventually lead to unhealthy attitudes about sex,
denial, rebellion, and poor decision making skills. Proponents,
according to Gwendolyn Gibson, a supporter of "comprehensive education",
also tend to compare sex education in basic ideas of which she consider
a joke. She examples a follower of only abstinence teaching: <*>.
Proponents also use catchy phrases to gain support such as <*>.
Opponents of "abstinenceonly" feel that this facile reasoning questions
the stability of proponent's cases by its lack of acknowledging the true
feelings that teenagers must overcome in order to be able to use those
phrases. The proponents case does not meet the reality of children's
full needs.

With teenage sex becoming so prevelant in today's society, it becomes
necessary to confront the issue of what should be taught in "sex
education". Should we teach prevention methods in addition to
abstinence? That is a question each school will decide. Yet, when teens
are taught ideas and given statistics that they know are scientifically
not true and do not make sense, the respect for that view is lost. The
consideration of that side is forgotten and teens will continue to be
sexually active. Therefore, it is crucial to give correct and
comprehensive views in order to lend any type of education at all.


































<ICLEUSMRQ0043.1>

When parents bring a child into this world, they have an important
decision to make. Will they keep the child to raise and love him, or
give another couple that same chance? The grief faced by the biological
parents is understandable and immeasurable, and what if they decide they
want that child back someday down the road? Recent cases played out in
the media have raised the question of rights of biological parents
versus the rights of adoptive parents. While both sides present some
good arguments, neither proponents nor opponents to biological parents
used strong values or consequences, nor attempt to change public
opinion. Because this is so, there is still no answer as to who should
have rights over a child.

Blood is thicker than water. This is the main underlying value stated by
the supporters of biological parents. The United States' legal system is
bound by law to favor the biological parents unless abuse, neglect or
abandonment can be proved. The righteousness of this point is debated
well by the supporters of adoptive parents. They cite a case in which an
18 year old who abandoned her child in a hospital later got custody,
even though she was living in a homeless shelter at the time. This is a
somewhat strong argument for the opponents of biological parents. Even
though they use a rare case as an example, it shows the inconsistency of
our court system. Yet, to make an even stronger argument, these
proponents for adoptive parents should state why this is a bad court
decision and find other examples. They should also cite possible
consequences of a wrongful decision in their eyes.

Another value stated by people in favor of biological parents is the
burden of guilt that is felt by the parents as they give up their child
for adoption. Because the parents may never fully be rid of this guilt,
proponents for biological parents argue, they should have a moral right
to get their child back if they choose. In the cases of Baby Richard and
Jessica, the fathers weren't even aware of their children's existence.
Therefore, they have even more rights because they never signed the
adoption papers to make everything legal. This is the reasoning behind
the supporters of biological parents. The consequences of knowing you
have a child somewhere that you can't ever have could be very
devastating. And specifically in the case of Baby Jessica, the adoption
process was never completed. Therefore, it is only right that she be
returned to her biological parents who want to raise her. This argument
is mostly based on the legal aspects of adoption. While there are many
more issues dealing with adoption, the proponents of biological parents
seem to rely on legality and morality. They could make a much more
effective argument had they based their claim on examples rather than
biology and the courts alone. 

Those who support adoptive parents use many more claims, and therefore,
have a wider range of the debate covered. For one thing, because of the
Baby Jessica and Richard cases, adoptive parents have public opinion on
their side. The media portrayed the adoptive parents as saints while the
biological parents were evildoers for giving up their children. In the
case of Baby Jessica, the Schmidt's were portrayed as <*>. According to
Dan Schmidt, it was the <*>. Yet, neither side attempted to change these
perceptions. Consequently, the supporters of adoptive parents were able
to take advantage of this view. By not trying to change the public's
perceptions, values held by these proponents are not clear.

One particular statistic seems to appear a few times throughout articles
in support of adoptive parents. According to the National Council for
Adoption, <*>. This statistic is good because it can ease the anxieties
felt by other adoptive families. Yet, it has a reverse effect as well.
According to the proponents of adoptive families, these recent cases
have all adoptive families on edge wondering about their own children.
Baby Richard's case <*>. So adding this statistic contradicts these
proponents' claim of the domino effect.

Examples often help an argument become stronger by backing up the main
claim. However, opponents to the biological parents use very rare cases
as scare tactics. There was one case of a boy who "divorced" his
biological parents in order to stay with foster parents. While this is
extreme, it also can be used to prove a point. Specifically in the Baby
Richard and Jessica cases, these children weren't old enough to voice
their opinions. This raises the question of: what would the children
really have wanted? These kids may have wanted to stay with their
adoptive parents had they been given a choice. Still, they may have
wanted to change homes and could have spared the long and tedious court
battles. Yet because they couldn't voice their views, Richard and
Jessica's fate was completely left up to the courts. Here again, the
proponents for adoptive parents are relying on hypothetical
consequences. This makes their entire argument weaker because they
aren't looking at straight facts, only what could possible happen.

Another extreme example is one of a woman who had a child while she was
in and out of mental institutions. Afterward, she wanted her son back
two months later, this biological mother was charged with her son's
murder. This is a very rare case and does nothing more than instill
great fear into the hearts of adoptive parents. It is used purely for
shock value. This is not a good technique, however, because this is only
one case out of thousands. Once again, the consequences of giving a
child back to the biological parents vary from one family to the next.
Proponents attempt to generalize, and by not realizing that there are
going to be differences in each cases, their claim is weakened.
Another major claim made by the proponents of the adoptive families is
that there may be an overall psychological effect on the children once
they change homes. Psychologists cited by these proponents say the child
can view this move as his/her fault, as a result of something he/she
did. Therefore, the child may live with this guilt for the rest of
his/her life. This is somewhat reasonable when you look at the fact that
the adoptive parents are the only parents the child has ever known. Yet,
young children are known for their resilience and ability to bounce
back. So unless the proponents of adoptive parents can pinpoint other
cases with psychological problems resulting, this point is useless. On
the other hand, proponents for biological parents could easily use this
point to their advantage by stating this ability of young children.

Jessica DeBoer was awarded by the courts to the Schmidts, her biological
parents. They were visited about one year later to check on the progress
of now Anna Jacqueline Schmidt. <*>, by Michele Ingrassia and Karen
Springen, is very strong for the proponents of biological parents. These
two set out to show how welladjusted and ordinary Anna has become. The
Schmidt family is portrayed as "normalized". However, this argument that
Anna has adjusted well could also be used by the proponents of adoptive
parents. The article was written one year after Anna moved.
Psychologists suggest that damage could still possibly show up after 5,
10, or even 20 years. Therefore, on could argue, this initial assessment
is too premature.

Because the media chose to pick out extreme cases of adoption battles,
they created a false dilemma. Not all biological parents falsified their
adoption papers. And not all children are going to be torn from their
adoptive parents. Each case is different, yet both sides want to
generalize and approach every case uniformly. Supporters of biological
parents oversimplify the debate by stating that the child belongs with
his/her birth parents, both legally and morally. Therefore, they rely
mostly on values held by the biological parents. Supporters of adoptive
parents oversimplify the issue by concentrating on the personalities of
the adoptive family and the fact that they were the ones caring for this
child since birth. Only the consequences of tearing the child away from
this atmosphere are analyzed by these proponents. Even between the Baby
Jessica and Baby Richard cases, there are differences. Yet, opponents
and proponents to biological parents treat the second case in the same
manner as Baby Jessica's. This isn't fair to both sides. Every case
needs to be looked at individually to be fully analyzed.

It is for the reasons of oversimplification, weak values and
consequences that court battles over adopted children are still
happening. Both sides present weak arguments. So when an outsider looks
at all the information presented, no clear, cut and dry answer can be
found. It is a shame that such young children can be the center of such
a heated debate. The consequences of these long battles, to the
children, may not even show up until 10 years later. And what if all
this struggle could have been avoided by one simple signature on the
adoption papers, or one more question asked by the adoptive parents? We
don't know, and that is why this ethical question cannot be readily
answered. Yet, if either proponents or the opponents of biological
parents can come up with more concrete evidence, consequences, and
values, maybe this ethical debate can finally come to an end, and these
young children can be spared the guilt and pain that may result.


























<ICLEUSMRQ0044.1>

Cheating has become a major question of value to the present student;
unfortunately, the consequences that should stop students from cheating
are unsuccessful. Consequently, cheating has become an aspect of college
life. <*>. Several college officials have become wary of students'
unethical attitude toward cheating. These individuals of the education
system have developed several strategies to combat cheating. The
strategies that they have developed are strong, but they are not
foolproof. The authors show that revamping the academic code and
establishing strict honor codes are the two strongest methods for
curtailing cheating. They also point out faults in the solutions. This
shows that their effectiveness can be increased by improving the faults.

One of the solutions is to establish honor codes at universities. Honor
codes require students to sign a pledge not to cheat, and it encourages
them to turn in others whom they believe have cheated. The argument for
this solution is strong. Several universities have enlisted the use of
the honor code and have reported many successes. <*>. The University of
Virginia students respect the code. Before they are accepted they are
presented to the school's honor code. Also, students are required to
write an essay about the honor code on their application for admission.
Those who are then accepted must also attend a session on academic
honesty. As a student, I believe that establishing honor codes is the
best method for combating cheating. <*>. Establishing true competition
allows students to excel honestly. I have seen others cheat and get a
better grade as a result. If we had an honor code at Marquette, I would
feel an obligation to myself and to my university to turn cheaters in.
However, when taken in account the effects of peer pressure, honor codes
are weakened. Mr Levine of Harvard believes that <*>. Many students will
not follow the codes because they would feel as if they are betraying
their friends. It is hard for students to <*>.
Another successful device is to revamp the academic code. By making the
penalties more severe and consistent, cheating will be diminished. <*>.
The "XF" grade has had proven successes at such universities as the
University of Maryland, Delaware, and South Carolina. After these grades
started to appear on permanent transcripts, cheating was reduced by
fifty percent or better at these schools. It is more effective than
sanctioned threats, because the grade of an "XF" illustrates more than a
"F". <*>. The extra "X" signals to future employers the characteristics
of a proven cheater. A weakness in this method is that at some
universities students are allowed to remove the "X" by taking a class
that discusses ethics, time management, and research skills. This
loophole weakens the stand against cheating. <*>. I believe that
students will not cheat if the range of punishments are focused on the
severe side.

In addition, college officials are calling for teachers and professors
to become more involved. <*>. When teachers, as role models, do not take
just stands then students tend to be less reluctant to cheat. Some
faculty have been to reluctant to report cases of cheating. <*>. Hiley
Ward suggests having support programs for professors seeking out
plagiarists. Also, prevention is another way for the faculty to get
involved. By making sure students understand what constitutes academic
fraud, the possibility of the ignorant cheater is eliminated.

Cheating has become a prevailing issue in education today. Many case
studies and trial solutions are being studied to find the best way to
eliminated this problem. However, when ineffective solutions are
introduced, such as involving the judiciary or "corporal punishments",
the claim is weakened. <*>. Copyright infringement, theft, and fraud are
methods that have been pressed in a court of law. These methods failed
because they are unrealistic and irrational. Trying to curtail cheaters
through the court system is weak because of the <*>.

After researching this subject in the library, talking to peers, and
experiencing cheaters on a first hand basis, I believe that establishing
a strict honor code, like the University of Virginia, is the best way to
ensure and honest academic environment. The loopholes involved with
revamping the academic codes are too strong. They weaken the argument,
rather than provide a solid solution. Authors that advocate the honor
code show both sides of the situation. They show how cheating is
becoming out of control and they show ways to curb this problem. The
authors cite examples of how this system could fail. By showing the
honor code system with minimal flaws, they prove it to be the best
method.









































<ICLEUSMRQ0045.1>

How should the Fourth Amendment be interpreted? According to the
Constitution, illegal search and seizure is unlawful, except for in
"exigent circumstances". That phrase "exigent circumstances" leaves much
room for interpretation. The recent search of O.J. Simpson's home
following the murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldwin was an
example of an exigent circumstance, according to Judge Kathleen Kennedy
Powell, yet the defense and prosecution still have different ethical
reasons why this evidence should or should not be allowed into the
courtroom. Many people, including the prosecuting attorneys in the case,
think that this is ethical because if someone is guilty of a crime,
he/she should pay the price. It is irrelevant whether the detectives
obtained the evidence legally or not. The defense disagrees, however,
and argues that the court should not allow the jury to hear this
evidence during Simpson's trial because O.J. Simpson's rights as a
citizen of the United States were disregarded. Since the detectives and
the Los Angelas Police Department obtained much of the evidence without
a warrant, they carelessly gathered it. This causes much skepticism in
the validity of the evidence. Both sides recognize their strengths and
weaknesses concerning the issue and format their arguments accordingly.
The proposition to the admissibility of the evidence uses the judge's
interpretation and the detectives' statements in an attempt to make
people understand the detectives' actions. The opposition, on the other
hand, points to the past of the detectives and inconsistencies in their
statements to make the evidence they gathered seem unreliable. 

On the evening of June 13, 1994, authorities discovered the bodies of
Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldwin, brutally murdered at Nicole's
condominium in Los Angelas. After authorities investigated the scene of
the crime, they drove to the home of O.J. Simpson, supposedly out of
concern for his safety. When they arrived, they rang the doorbell
several times before climbing the five foot fence without a search
warrant and soon after, detective Mark Fuhrman discovered a bloody glove
that was the apparent match to a glove found at the crime scene. At this
point, the detectives searched O.J.'s home and discovered several key
pieces of information that linked O.J. Simpson to the murders.

The side in favor of allowing the evidence into the courtroom attempts
to convince its readers to side with them by relating the situation to a
hypothetical one in which another life was possibly in danger in the
Simpson house as a result of police inaction. They accomplish this by
using emotional statements from the detectives such as <*>. The
proposition also points out how the situation created a double standard
for the police officers from the very start, hence creating a situation
that readers can relate to and sympathize with. If the detectives had
not gone in, they would have been labeled as incompetent. A further
delay may have resulted in a loss of evidence or an unnecessary loss of
life, which is sure to pull compassion out of most readers. After all,
the detectives have earned their badge, and they deserve to have their
decisions supported by the court.

One particular article titled, "Detectives in Simpson Case Defend
Search", written by B. Drummond Ayres Jr. attempts to get his readers to
put themselves in detective Fuhrman's shoes when he found the glove by
quoting him on the stand. <*>. Because of these exigent circumstances on
the night of the murders, these articles argue that the detectives'
actions were justified. They make the reader realize that the detectives
are only human and they acted out of concern for anyone who may have
been in O.J.'s home. There is no reason, then, that this crucial
evidence is not fair game for the prosecuting team since lives may have
been at risk.

After the proposition attempts to pull sympathy out of the readers for
the detectives, they then concentrate on how the judge interpreted the
evidence to be permissible in the courtroom even with all the
opposition's claims of illegal procedure and wrongful entry. As Ayres
points out in another article, the bottom line is that the judge
interpreted the evidence to be permissible. The judge ruled that the
detectives who went into Mr. Simpson's home were confronted by a series
of portentous questions that needed quick answers. She goes on to say
that they were acting in an emergency situation at the time so any
evidence the detectives discovered will be allowed into the courtroom.
The proposition using the judge's interpretation makes this message even
more credible because they point out the judge's history in cases like
these in which an interpretation of the law was necessary. They
emphasize how the court commended the judge for these interpretations.
Since the opinion of a judge (especially this judge) is more convincing
than opinions of most other people, the proposition makes it seem as if
the opposition is scratching to find anything to fight this evidence as
being illegal.

Besides the fact that O.J.'s 4th Amendment rights were disregarded, the
opposition to this evidence being allowed into the courtroom question
the validity of the evidence. Since the opposition realizes they have no
control over the judge's interpretation of the 4th Amendment, they focus
on the credibility of the detectives and their work. They claim that the
detectives not having a search warrant is the root of the unreliable
evidence. One article titled, "Judge Rejects Barrage of Objections by
Simpson's Lawyers," brings up the past relationship of the detective, Mr
Fuhrman, who found the bloody glove and O.J. Simpson. Fuhrman responded
to domestic disputes between O.J. and Nicole a few times over the past 4
years. Beside that, Fuhrman was vocal about his distaste for interracial
marriage. one way the opposition tries to cause skepticism in Fuhrman's
finding of the glove is suggesting that he planted the glove in O.J.'s
home. Even though this suggestion may seem farfetched, it is a
possibility since Fuhrman was unaccounted for in the house for at least
ten minutes and the detectives were on the scene for nearly an hour
before experts arrived. Fuhrman also had a record of tampering with
evidence. In a 1987 case, the court accused him of improperly removing
evidence after he shot a suspect. This is a definite strength in the
opposition's argument. When the proposition apparently had them backed
into a corner about the evidence, the opposition did a little homework
on the detective's pasts. Bringing this up is effective because the
opposition realizes that this case has revolved from one attempting to
prove O.J. guilty to one of politics attempting to place the blame on
something else, like the methods in which the detectives obtained the
evidence.

The opposition also brings up a lie made by one of the detectives about
entering the house. The detectives claim that an unanswered telephone
call in the Simpson home lured them into the house because they knew of
O.J.'s maid who should have answered the call. Besides the fact that
Fuhrman contradicted himself by initially claiming that the blood on the
Bronco lured them in, records show the police learned of the maid only
after the fact. If the detectives lied about something minor like this,
why would they be opposed to lying about other things concerning that
night? The opposition claims that the detectives were in "such a rush"
to convict O.J. that none of their evidence is reliable. One article
quotes Judge Ito as saying that the detectives had displayed a <*>,
concerning the lie, to further question their credibility. By quoting
Judge Ito, they make it appear that the judge is on their side, even
though he still allowed the evidence into the courtroom. The opposition
takes a quote that is apparently in the proposition's favor and makes it
appear to be supporting evidence for them. All of this comes together in
an attempt to make the detectives out to be liars, thus proving the
evidence to be unreliable. The strategy of "picking on" the L.A.P.D. and
the detectives works very well since most people still remember the
Rodney King incident. This scenario sounds very realistic to people
still angry at the L.A.P.D. about that incident.

Both sides use different methods to argue their case. Naturally, they
both point to reasons that the average person can easily overlook to
support their claim. Besides that, they manipulate other evidence so
that it appears to be in their favor. Both sides concede their
weaknesses, and thus concentrate on their strengths. Whether one side's
reasons seem more credible to someone is not the issue, though. Rather,
the issue is that allowing illegally seized evidence into the courtroom
is an issue that two sides see differently and argue their points
effectively. One thing is for sure, however. In the future, if
authorities obtain search warrants before they gather evidence, they
will eliminate much of the problem with the credibility.





































<ICLEUSMRQ0046>

Many events in our lives have consequences but there are none as drastic
as suicide. Suicide means the end of all problems (Though those problems
are usually solved easily.) This topic has many sides but can be
analyzed with two: those who advocate rational suicide and those who
oppose it. To analyze specific values and consequences, I will only
discuss the opponents of suicide. There are a vast number of reasons
against attempting suicide. In one way or another, people seem to
justify them all. People often discuss how selfish a suicide can be.
Others discuss the griefstricken family. They feel no pity for the
person who committed suicide either. Yet, others speak of the
involvement of religion in the lives of those that attempt and commit
suicide. The opponents of suicide often neglect to prove their
statements. All the statements that people make are good statements
that, with some thought, can be rationalized. The opponents simply fail
to provide the evidence for the rationalization of their arguments.

The authors of the first argument fail to prove it. The argument of the
selfishness of suicide is weak with hardly any evidence of its claim.
Though, if the readers analyze their own experiences with those that
attempt suicide, they can view this argument as a good one. In The Case
Against Suicide, William Rauscher talks of suicide as an act that
requires only one word: selfish. He does not feel that there is any
suicide that can be considered rational because all suicide fails to
think about the effects of a suicide on others. He states that <*>. Mr
Rauscher hopes to convey that the only thing that people who commit
suicide do is think about whether they should end their own pains. Yet,
Rauscher fails to analyze his opposition. He should ask what does the
person attempting suicide thinking? The person may be thinking about his
family and friends when he or she attempts suicide. For example, someone
dying of lung cancer may make his or her family more upset if he or she
were alive. The pain experienced by someone dying of cancer is enormous.
Maybe Mr Rauscher does not think about what the sight of that pain and
the family's helplessness in comforting the person does to their
emotions.

When thinking about the selfishness of suicide, often the person really
must be selfish to receive attention. The opponents of suicide fail to
substantiate their claim by talking about the inner struggle without
giving examples. In an editorial, written by Malcolm S. Forbes Jr.,
Forbes states that <*>. Here, Forbes has introduced his point that
people who believe in suicide as an answer to problems cannot be well.
By introducing it as a "cry for help", he has said that the person needs
something. They are suffering inside and need assistance whether it be
medical assistance or assistance from their loved ones. Mr Forbes
intends this point to establish that suicide is not ever rational. Ellen
Ingram and Jon B. Ellis propose another example of the inner struggle in
the publication, Death Studies. They state that the opponents to suicide
feel that <*>. Ingram and Ellis are saying that the suicidal person
feels shame and remorse; they are unable to deal with certain
circumstances. By doing this, they are stating that this type of suicide
is irrational. These examples of the plea for help and the ambivalence
of suicide are good. The only problem is that they do not give any data
that provides evidence that these ideas are real. Of course, many people
will not agree to talk about their experience with suicide, but many
psychologists can offer their experiences with different sessions with
different people. If personal experience were added to this argument, it
would be a very good one.

When the person attempting suicide is crying out, whom is he or she
appealing to? Most of the time, he or she is appealing to his or her
family or friends. What part does the family play in the matter of the
person's suicide? The family is often forgotten when discussing suicide
except when a writer makes the family the basis for his or her argument.
In the Ingram and Ellis article, the introduction involves a question as
to the effects of suicide on family members. They state that <*>. Ingram
and Ellis want to show that the suicide is not the end. They want to
state that suicide is wrong because suicide intends to take pain away
from the family, but society does not widely accept suicide and may
bring hurt to the family anyway. Ingram and Ellis also point out in a
later part of their essay that Parks and Weiss, assuming that they are
two people with experience in dealing with the grief after suicide,
state that <*>. Here they intend to show the reader that the pain
experienced by the family tends to become more of a psychological
barrier to getting on with their lives. The argument is well stated, but
there is no evidence provided for the proof of this argument. Also, as
stated earlier, I assumed that Parks and Weiss are knowledgeable in
making that statement about grief. In no part of their essay do Ingram
and Ellis give credentials for these two people. For all the reader's
know, they could be car salespeople or accountants. Another problem with
this argument again rests on evidence. There is no proof that society
ostracizes the families of people that commit suicide. If there were
evidence, this argument would be very strong.

Many of the societal problems with suicide originate from their beliefs.
What drives their beliefs? Most of the time it is their religion. In
many faiths, suicide is seen as an unholy act. These people question the
values and beliefs of the person that is attempting suicide. If their
religion is different from that of the opponents of suicide, then the
opponents question the attitudes towards suicide of that religion. Many
opponents use religion when talking about the negative effects of a
suicide. Rauscher states that <*>. He wants the reader to think about
their own religion and its ideas about the necessary suffering. His
appeal to religious people is effective because they want to follow
their religion and if their religion calls for suffering, how can
suicide be respectful of that aspect of their religion. Expanding on his
previous thought, Rauscher states that <*>. This statement also reflects
on the previous arguments that the family will also feel great pain due
to their loved one's suicide. This suffering for others means that the
person should not feel suffering for their own religion but also for
others as well. This argument is somewhat more substantial because every
person's faith is different and that each will reflect on their own
understanding of redemptive suffering. The only downside is that there
still is no reference to any evidence of people's experiences.

Religion does play an important role in our lives, especially when there
are diseases such as AIDS in our society. No one is exempt from
acquiring HIV and ultimately AIDS. Heterosexuals, homosexuals, drug
users, and even people who need blood transfusions are subject to
acquiring the virus. When there little safety from diseases such as
these, many people rely on their religions.

A very specific argument talks about rational suicide and AIDS patients
in the magazine, The Advocate. It begins by talking about the effects of
easing the restriction of assisted suicide. The people that speak of
this idea state that <*>. This argument is faulty because it commits the
fallacy of the slippery slope. Hurley, an authority on logic, writes
that slippery slope <*>. Truly, this idea does appear to be increasing
rapidly down the hill from easing restrictions to encouraging suicide.
There is no proof that doctors will suggest to their patients to attempt
suicide if assisted suicide regulations were eased.

One of the problems of these arguments is that they fail to provide any
evidence in the form of personal experiences. The opponents of suicide
may state that there will never be any evidence because all the people
in question have committed suicide and they cannot answer any of our
questions. The only rebuttal to be given is that many people are unable
to commit suicide and are still alive. Next, the opponents will argue
that many of the failed suicide victims will not discuss their failures.
I am sure that we can still all learn of the circumstances of the
victims through psychologists and psychiatrists. Of course, there is the
obstacle of patient privilege, but we do not need to analyze the
people's names. All we need to know is why people choose suicide as a so
lution to problems. Are people really crying for help? Do they really
feel that their families will be spared much grief if they end their
lives prematurely?

All of these arguments are good, valid ones, but without any evidence
they do not hold up well. These arguments are necessary just as are the
arguments in support of suicide. The topic of suicide will somehow
affect every person on earth in one way or another. There is no escape
from involvement with suicide. If we can learn to be objective about
suicide, then maybe we can understand why people do this. Right now,
many of us feel that suicide is horrid and completely, morally
inexcusable, but eventually we must realize that suicide will never
cease to exist and the best that we can do is try to understand it.




<ICLE-US-IND-0001.1>


Money has been said to be the root of all evil. I feel this statement is personally true. I will take the side of the everyday person like myself and the issues of big business. I personally witnessed first hand the effects of greed and negligence within a large corporation. In March of 1989, the Exxon Valdez oil tanker ran aground in Prince William sound, Alaska. The Exxon corporation is one of the largest corporations in the world and owns many smaller corporations and businesses as well. The money involved in such a corporation is mind boggling and hard for the common person to comprehend.

The grounding of the Exxon Valdez was a catastrophe beyond belief, not only for the wildlife which calls the sound its home, but for the native people of Alaska as well.

Within a few days the devastating effects of the oil were widespread throughout the pristine waters of Alaska. The response by Exxon was slow, disorganized and unacceptable. The Exxon Valdez incident will go down in history as the biggest Public Relations blunder by any firm in the nation. Exxon's slow response time angered not only the native Alaskans, but millions of people around the world. While I laid in my living room the evening of the spill, I watched the needless suffering, death and devastation of this beautiful wilderness. I grew angry at the Exxon management and Exxon Response Team. I loathed the corporation and all it stood for. I could not understand how such a profitable corporation such as Exxon could blunder a recovery effort such as the Prince William Sound incident.

Prior to the grounding the Exxon, many wildlife organizations, concerned citizens and others asked the all important question to Exxon. How would they prevent such a catastrophe from occurring? Each time Exxon was confronted with this question, spokespersons said the same thing. <*>.

What Exxon did not plan for was the negligence and gross human error of the Captain in charge the vessel that night. After the super tanker ran aground on Bligh Reef, the Exxon Valdez Tanker, poured over 11 million gallons of raw crude oil into the pristine waters of Prince William Sound. The effects of the raw crude oil in the waters were and still are devastating. The carnage was and still is unbelievable. The effects on the fishing industry, the native peoples and animals are still felt. After close to two years, Exxon finally made monetary amends with the people of Alaska and the United States of America. The publishing of Exxon's notes and court transcriptions, prove that if Exxon would have maintained the ships in a better fashion this devastating nightmare may never have happened. It is common practice now to double hull oil tankers that travel the oceans and seas of the world.

I feel very strongly that Exxon owes the people of Alaska and the world an explanation and a monetary amount for the devastating effects of its enormous blunder. I would like to see Exxon set aside monies for more testing and research on the effects of oil in the environment and more monies for the buying of land to increase the acreage of wildlife sanctuaries. If we, the people, allow big business to pollute and rape our land, we will all be lesser in the end. We must find better ways to remove and transport our natural resources. Along with this effort, we must push to make large corporations, such as Exxon accountable for their effects on the environment.





<ICLE-US-IND-0002.1>

Many people choose the fast track to riches and money. They choose to steal it from others, instead of earning it for themselves. Most of the people that turn to crime are either fed up with societies rules for becoming rich and famous. Others may have grown up with crime around them and find it expectable. The bottom line is that money and riches are hard to come by. You must work hard and be very patient before you can succeed in this country. Some people are not patient and see and easier way of earning money, either by stealing it or selling drugs or other illegal contraband. I know several people who fit in this catigory  of not being will to go about obtaining money the legal way. They are more interested in the get rich quick attitude. Some of them have obtained riches illegally, but the problem is, as the title of this essay states <*>.
Crime does not pay, is a very true statement. Just as the person knows, who I was referring to above. He decided to get rich quick and he did. His family way very proud of him, although they did not know much about what he was doing. All they knew was that he was involved in real-estate. His whole family was very happy, because they finally had all the things they wanted. All the things they did not have enough money to buy before, they could have now. This went on for about a year. The one day they saw their father's/husband's picture on the news. Right after, they received a call that informed them that their father had been arrested and he was in jail. All their dreams had been destroyed, and the bread winner of the family could no longer support them. They were surprised to hear on the news what kinds of things he had been involved in and they did not want to beleive any of it. The news told a story of a greedy business man who took money from elderly couples, who thought they were investing in a good real-estate project. When in reality, he was just scamming the old couples money, never planning on investing it. This was a very harsh picture of the man that had supported them and taken care of them for a long time. The family did not want to believe it, and some still do not. But, the man went to jail anyway, for several years. The government took control of all the families money, including the house in which they lived. 

There was no reason for this man to have chosen the get rich quick attitude, at least not in my mind. He had a good life. He had a good career in a fortune 500 company. He was making good money and his family had all the things that they needed. But, he was greedy and he wanted more. His actions resulted in tearing his family apart and destroying his future. The bottom line is that crime does not pay and that it destroys your life.





<ICLE-US-IND-0003.1>

The idea that <*> seems at first to be in harmony with our perceived values of equality in American society. Although it is likely that most Americans, if asked, would profess to the belief that equal work deserves equal pay, equality of work as defined by specific task, physical difficulty, or cognitive difficulty, is not the real issue. The real issue, in a discussion of relative contribution to society, involves our deeper cultural assumptions about values of various societal functions, including non-productive (in financial terms) work.

Child care work makes a good example for this point. Americans profess to value children, spending time, money and thought on such concerns as education and child safety laws. Our national education system is a pereniel subject and topic of debate in the media. However, as a nation, Americans have not reached a level of conscious acknowledgment that labor performed in the child care industry is valuable labor. If we consider that our society rewards valuable labor - valuable contributions - with first, economic measures, and, second, measures of status, then the child care worker may reasonably be judged as not providing a "valuable" contribution to society.

It is difficult to imagine, however, a society where workers are encouraged to take employment seriously - to say nothing of finding satisfaction from employment - and where the work force is filled with a diversity of willing workers, without considering the fundamental value of child care providers. If we recognize that a work force filled with such diversity of workers will inevitably include women - of all ages - as well as man with family responsibilities, then we see the undeniable economic connection between this "low value" contribution of child care providers, and the economic strength of the nation. It is not difficult to conclude that child care workers are underpaid, and the issue will be difficult to resolve without  involving employers or the government in the child care industry - which may not be the ideal solution. It is tempting to conclude with the proposal that we, as a society, consciously work to raise the status of workers who care for children - but the final irony is that, until the financial status of these workers becomes more equal, they will not be judged as making a valuable "contribution to the society they live in."



















<ICLE-US-IND-0004.1>

In "first-world" cultures around the globe, the value of a human being has become equated with the dollars he or she generates in the marketplace--i.e., in the job he or she performs for monetary compensation. The amount of that financial reward, unfortunately, has become equated with worth as a person. However, most of the traditional household roles formerly performed by women exclusively (but now handled by people of both sexes) have never been compensated by the dollar. This poses a problem, since undoubtedly those at-home tasks contribute services to society equally valuable in comparison to marketplace "jobs". Therefore, in order for society to fully acknowledge the value of both types of jobs--in the home and outside the home, some sort of compensation should be made for "home-making service" as well as for he or she who works outside the home.

The career with a capital C is traditionally seen as the route to performing a service to society worth rewarding with a paycheck. Certainly doctors, lawyers and Indian chiefs contribute invaluable resources to human civilization and deserve to be compensated for their labors. Teachers, engineers, artists, politicians and all those who enrich our lives and our cultures, and on whom we depend, are indispensable to society. Whether they be male or female has no bearing on the size of their reward; "equal pay for equal work" is a well-worded and time-honored phrase.

But what is "equal work"? It is fairly easy to establish equity between marketplace jobs with duties and responsibilities that are roughly similar. That is, a teacher of sophomore high school English and a teacher of senior high school English perform comparable tasks and therefore should be equally compensated. But how do we compare raising a family of four children over a period of twenty-five years to the job of an neurosurgeon over the same period of time? I know of no culture on this globe that pays a woman (or a man, for that matter) a yearly salary of $50,000 for nurturing and educating children from the cradle to near-dependence. And yet this contribution to society in so immense as to be practically immeasurable. In fact, many of the ills of society in the U.S. today have been traced by study after study to the lack of firm guidance and support from the family.

For the better part of this century, the bulk of that familial guidance service was provided by the at-home female who did not demand financial compensation, and of course, it remains an unpaid job today, whether it's Mom or Dad who stays at home. In the 90s, however, a person who chooses the tough "homemaker" position is made to feel a bit ashamed that he or she has taken the option of a non-marketplace, non-public and non-financially rewarded job. Perhaps this is due to the fact that women have successfully entered the once male-dominated workworld, and thus the stay-at-home Mom feels torn or ambivalent because the media makes her feel behind the times. On the other hand, maybe it's simply due to the fact that the crucial task of raising children has no dollar value attached to it, and is therefore symbolically worthless in our market-driven culture.

Our choice, then, is to decide whether mothers, or even childless homemakers, for that matter, should be financially rewarded, or whether our society needs to re-examine its notions of worthy societal contributions. How about making the paycheck out to the couple, or to the entire family, instead of the individual person (it, of course, the worker is married)? Perhaps this is a solution worth its salt since it communicates physically, materially, that each member of a partnership is an equally worthy contributor.


<ICLE-US-IND-0005.1>

If money was the root of all evil the poor would be saints. It would seem to follow that if indeed money inspired and cultivated evil there would be a negative correlation between money earned and virtue obtained. Perhaps, one might say, that the "desire" for money could be gauged in comparison to evil acts committed, but the wealthy would be immediately privelaged in such a formula. Desire cannot be measured on some utilitarian scale of pleasure. It increases and decreases with the acruement of wealth. The wealthy in fact could be more gluttonous than the poor who would seem to have a greater desire for financial gain. I contend that the saying is meaningless-or a least impractical - for summing up the woes and corruption of humanity since desire-much less evil- cannot be appropriated objectively and wheighed against financial aptitude. 

"Happiness" as a psychological idea can be shown to exist (in as much as "happiness" can be defined) among all classes, wealthy and poor. Usually those who fit the term are financially stable and so there is reason to suspect a general trend towards virtue in affluent households if happiness (as I would define it) can also be viewed as a lack of desire for further money, a contentedness with all that one has. What if not that is happiness?

The problem, however, becomes immediately clear. The desire for money would-must- coincide and flourish with a desire for virtue if virtue, here defined as the counterpart of "happiness", is to thrive. Only the serrendipitously rich, the heirs of fortunes, could be the do-gooders of a world where in which money was the "root of all evil". As stated, the problem is how these two desires are to be reconciled, called "compatible" since, as the saying seems to imply, they are mutually exclusive. 

<*>. A truer statement, I think, which illustrates one of the lessons of history: those with power, those with wealth, those who could be our saints are just as often the oppressors as saviors. It is not subtle argument, but the unfolding of history that makes desire such an elusive - and money such a fallible - measuring stick of such an awesome mystery as evil.

 



















<ICLE-US-IND-0006.1>


<*>. These are the words of Karl Marx, the father of modern communism. In any society, that principle applies to the members of the society in varying degrees. If one were to break the community structure into small parts, on e would understand the concept of Marx as it applies practically. 

For example, the family structure in any society or culture is the first to apply Marx's egalitarian goal. A mother nurtures her helpless infant. All of the members of a family will normally protect, provide and nurture its own. Absent a deviation from our general nature to propagate and extend ourselves through our offspring, the concept of egalitarianism is a natural choice for the family unit.

Society also has social institutions & practices in order which preserve the egalitarian concept. In Western society, for example, the primary guide is Christianity. The New Testament teaches <*>. This norm is deeply entrenched in western ideology. These beliefs extend to the individual. The individual, in turn, incorporates the norm into rational thought. Even those who are not Christian but who live in western society will most likely have inculcated that value on a personal level. 

In an affluent society, the concept of giving back to society that which can be given is thought of primarily in monetary terms, hence the idea, <*>.
There are several problems with this notion. First, who it to define what contribution merits what reward? If I value my own family and I make it my primary goal to raise my children to be productive and good citizens, is that not enough? Must I go instead into the streets to save the homeless man or rescue the battered woman? Should my financial rewards be less or more?

Second, there is the problem of freedom. The individual is paramount in the post-modern world. This seems highly contradictory to the forces that bind us: family, religion, common language & experience. There is a constant tension between the rights of the individual and the good of the society as a whole. This tension has been recognized by philosophers, poets & politicians throughout the history of western civilization.

Ultimately, it is for the individual to determine what his/her contribution is to society, if any. The  religious would rest knowing that the rewards will be delivered by none other than God. The nonreligious can comfort themselves with secular, intrinsic, values.

The final problem which arises is the modern tendency of moral relativism, due in part to individualism. The modern person lives in a world where relativism reigns supreme. It would be very difficult to impose such an ethic on members of society from external sources. The values developed are learned primarily form the family, religion, or an immediate micro community. These avenues are the only paths to tempering rampant moral relativism. 

The concept provided is an admirable goal but one whose ends will unlikely be achieved in any western culture.

<ICLE-US-IND-0007.1>

In order to determine whether or not crime pays, one should first define what is meant by the word "pays". If a person gains $100 in a jewelry store theft, yet uses ten dollars worth of gas to get away, cuts his hand on a broken window and pays $50 in medical bills, and spends another $50 for a hideout hotel room, then his crime has actually left him ten dollars in the hole. 

However, the question of crime paying requires a deeper level of "pay" than simple dollars and cents accounting. In terms of criminal work, pay must be weighed as gains made from crime versus all manners of loss that occur as a result.

One issue to consider as a loss is the type of capital loss illustrated above. Crime, like any small business, requires an investment. One investment is time. If the time involved in the planning and enacting of a crime does not pay off in a gain that can justify that time expenditure, then the crime has not paid. Whether or not crime pays in this instance depends on how much money a criminal could make in a legitimate field. If the criminal can only expect to earn minimum wage in a legal job, then crimes can earn less to justify time spent. If a criminal is well educated and could function in one of the professions, then his crimes must earn more.

Other capital investments in crime could include equiptment such as get-away cars, dynamite, weaponry, and disguises. Mafia and police pay-offs could be involved. Dealing in stolen property or other contraband could require splitting monies earned with other involved parties. A crime's income must be enough to cover all these expenditures.

Another type of loss to be considered is loss of mental or physical health and well being. Many times violence is a part of crime. The cost of taking a gunshot or knife in the leg is more than just the medical bills. It could be an injury that keeps someone from ever working again. Very few criminals have worker's compensation. The stress that comes about from constant risk of injury and incarceration is a cost in itself, and could lessen both a person's life span and enjoyment of life.

Legal problems could become both a capital loss and a health related loss. Lawyers can be very expensive, and if a criminal chooses to avoid the capital loss of a more expensive attorney, he could pay with the health loss of being imprisoned. Even if someone is not imprisoned, long legal entanglements can be very stressful and unhealthy.

Does crime pay? In some cases it may, but the small businessman criminal must deal with the same risks as the legitimate businessman. Larger criminal corporations will always seek to drive him out of business, and he may have to work long hours for small gains. However, he does better the legitimate businessman on one count: no taxes.








<ICLE-US-IND-0008.1>

This idea is completely erroneous. Money perhaps, is a necessary evil in order to conduct the daily affairs of life.
Money, in some form or other, is required in order to carry out business trading, commerce & exchange of property.
Money enables a human being to store what he owns, to pay his expenses, to share with others or even to give to those in need.
However, it is true that the love of money is the root of all evil. This is a different concept all together. The desire for what we may not have can at times cause people to conduct themselves in a way that they might not otherwise do. 
Although there is a healthy desire to meet the needs that we have, at times this desire can be pushed to an extreme.
How many times have we seen on the evening news a family being broken apart, a company going under, or even a nation crumbling simply because there was a desperate desire, on the part of one or many, for something that exceeds what was actually needed or required? Even individuals can be destroyed who are in constant search of what evades them. They think that having the "right" car or living in the "right" neighborhood or knowing the "right" people can bring them happiness or contentment. This love of money urges them on, causes them to neglect their families and at times to commit crimes for which they are imprisoned. Our society pays dearly, both financially and socially, for their love affair with money.
It is a cross-cultural thing. We can be speaking of the American dollar, the Japanese yen or the Spanish peseta. The love of whatever represents the financial exchange between parties wreaks havoc in a nation, a family and even an individual life.
Not the money itself but rather the love of it persuades men's hearts, capitivates their minds and influences their priorities and their behavior. The hoarding of wealth for personal benefit or security when pushed to an extreme is the root of all evil.
It produces selfishness in even the smallest child. It's not long before a 4-5 year-old realizes the power that money brings. he begins to hide it, save it, ask for it and spend it.
A healthy thing can be turned into a tool for disaster. is money the root of all evil? No. It can be sued for good. It can bring relief to those in need and even extra joy into a life that already has it's needs met. However, the love it, the overwhelming desire for it that causes people to overlook what is most important and at times even commit terrible acts toward each other, is truly the root of all evil.
 
















<ICLE-US-IND-0009.1>

The phrase <*> is often invoked to justify living by the rules when a criminal has been caught. For example, a working class man may recite it with some satisfaction when he reads that a famous bank robber has died penniless in prison or that a former politician who scammed the public for millions in personal gain is now incarcerated making license plates for a token wage, such as $23.00 per month.

The phrase plays an important role in reassuring people who play by the rules or admonishing potential criminals. Parents of would-be miscreants point out the error of the young person's ways with variations on the theme: crime does not pay. They reinforce this message with restitution or punishment that outweighs whatever payoff may have been associated originally with the crime.

If, however, crime does not pay, then why does it persist? Behavior that is not reinforced in some way will not persist. For whom is there a payoff? I recently read that the average amount of time that a convicted murderer spends in prison is 15 years. It seems that a more cold-blooded statistician than I am could calculate how the crime of murder might be cost effective if the only cost is 15 years of incarceration.

Crime seems also to pay for some less violent criminals. Michael Milliken reportedly made more money with his stock broker scams than he returned in his restitution, managed to continue his activities while in a "country club" prison, and has returned to society as a university teacher. Richard Nixon, certainly a criminal at least in the sense of having violated public trust, was deprived of public office and lived a sequestered life for several years, but somehow managed to become a representative of the nation again and, when he died, to be honored as a "statesman" rather than a criminal.

In addition to having crime pay for some well-known criminals, I think it could also be argued that crime pays for an industry that thrives on it. Incarceration has become big business. States now compete to take in the criminals from other states just as they compete for the right to collect and store garbage from other states. It may not be pleasant, advocates argue, but it is lucrative. A controversy exists now in Indiana about the placement of juvenile offenders or CHINS (Children in Need of Services) outside the state. For some, the controversy is an ethical issue about the appropriate care; for most, it is an issue of costs. Placing a child in detention outside Indiana may cost several thousand dollars a year. The cost cutters argue that this money should stay in Indiana. Some of them go on to argue for a local detention center, which, after, not only saves money on placement, but also generates local jobs and stimulates the economy.

Given the evidence that crime does, in fact, at least sometimes pay off, I think the phrase is better considered as wishful thinking than as a truism.








<ICLE-US-IND-0010.1>

There are many standards by which success and hard work have been measured and rewarded in the past. In earlier times people had the lifestyle of fending for themselves. They were not afforded the many luxuries that have become commonplace in our present society. Because of the differences in personalities and ambition, I feel it is vital that in today's society men and women should be financially reward for their individual efforts.

In a society each person has the same basic needs for survival. Long ago the quest for fulfillment of these needs took up of majority of each person's day. In order to feed your family you had to plant. In order to live you had to build. To have clothing, you had to sew. Each hour of each day was devoted to meeting these needs. Even in early times the harder you worked, the more food, shelter or clothing you gained. This is a very simple support of reward equaling effort.

Bringing this to a more present time, we are now reaping the benefits of advanced technology, expanding knowledge, and modern times. We have many machines to held us meet our food, clothing and shelter needs with little or no effort on our part, it would appear. Persons with great technical minds are using their talent on the job and paying someone to do their labor. However, just as in earlier days, the harder you work, the greater the reward.

Let's imagine a society where all men and women were treated equal. All basic survival needs (and even wants for that matter) were provided regardless of the effort put forth. I would venture to guess that we would not be as advanced of a society as we are today. Competitiveness and jealously would set in and fights would occur. Worst case scenario: the world would become divided or even destroyed because someone was sitting on the sidelines and not doing their share. We would not have motivation to develop our talents and abilities and to use them in a way to benefit others. Our society would become selfish and hoarding and our culture would suffer. It may be a pessimistic view, but I feel a very real view, to say that we would become lazy and stagnate people.

Life is about rewards. It is about learning where you are and how you can move yourself to the next level. Each of us is measured daily by some scale of achievement. Effort is vital to success, motivation is the key to effort. Some are content with needs, others want more, much more! Our system of rewards is money...but is it really about money? I don't think so. It's about meeting needs (and even wants!) and how much one is willing to give for the opportunity for something better.














<ICLE-US-IND-0011.1>

The question of compensation for services rendered is never so simple as remitting a predetermined salary based on qualifications and a person's dedication to the task at hand. If one has preconceived notions concerning one's salary, one will certainly be disappointed since some employers are sure to value their skills and abilities less than others. "Contribution to society" is subjective and therefore impossible to compensate "equally'.

In the 1920s in American, it became very popular to disdain people who did not actually work for a living, but merely lived off the interest of their investments. The stock market was experiencing a boom, and several formerly working-class citizens became wealthy and relished the idea of retiring early. But several great authors of that period questioned the right of these investors to effectively live as parasites; they received money, but they contributed nearly nothing to society.

People who inherit money or live off the interest of investors often seem to spend their time in search of a new thrill, some sort of excitement that money cannot buy. Having almost unlimited wealth changes people, both those who are born into wealth and those who earn their own money early on. But do they have the right to live this way? What about people who work very hard yet they seem to be paid miserably. A migrant work may slave away in a field all day long and make less money in a day than a wealthy person spends on a tip at lunch.

The answer this question lies in one's feelings about Democracry. Some would argue that if a person is smart enough or lucky enough to earn money for an early retirement (or for their children's inheritance) he or she is entitled to it. A rather hard view would be that if someone who works on a menial or physically taxing job does not make a fair or moderate salary then it is his or her own fault (or bad luck). These opinions are based on a rather faulty American premise that all people are given an equal chance in  life and what they make of it is their own responsibly.

Apparently, most people believe that they are underpaid and that others are overpaid. For instance, everyone seems to think that doctors make much too money for the work they do, yet none of the doctors are lowering their fees (they must think that it's a fair price). So, unless we wish to impose on the personal lives of wealthy people by making them work harder, or give people who are not wealthy money that society does not believe they deserve, we cannot give pay equal to contribution to society.
















<ICLE-US-IND-0012.1>

Any upstanding citizen will avow that crime does not pay. The guilty are punished, and no one profits. However, that is not always true in the real world. There are many persons who engage in criminal activity to their advantage. In fact one needs only to consider the historical context, the current material gain, and even the consequences of crime in America to prove that crime can be a profitable profession.

Throughout history crime is a recurrent theme, often praised as the years pass and events become more distant. Consider the vents shaping America's early history: the people involved in the Boston Tea Party were certainly breaking the law when they dumped private property into the harbor, yet this crime became a rallying cry for the American Revolution. Even Benedict Arnold's actions were considered criminal only because of the date on which they occurred. In more recent history, criminals have often become celebrities and profited after they were formally accused -- Divine Brown, Oliver North, and Joey Buttafuco are a few examples of this National Enquirer brand of fame. Likewise, events which reside in the darker portions of this country's history have often brought profit to those committing illegal activities. Prohibition provided income to thousands of people who broke the law daily while running speak-eases or transporting liquor across the border. Of course one cannot forget that the city of Los Vegas was founded  on ill-gotten gains. It seems that those who say that crime does not pay have not read their history books recently.

The most obvious reward in committing a crime is the monetary rewards gained from the illegal activities. No one can argue that crime is not a means of making money, if it were not why would people commit them. Yet in America we see those who are found guilty of crimes profiting from them, where but in the "land of opportunity" could a person find convicted killers autobiographies on the best-seller list or highlighted as a movie of the week. Not only do the criminals profit (even if they do have to wait until after they are released from prison), but so do the publishers, networks, and advertisers. Apparently crime can be quite profitable if one has the right agent.

Finally, is the issue of capture and punishment. In America we have perfected a judicial system which can produce more prosperous criminals. After all, when was the last time anyone had thought of O.J. Simpson before his ten mile an hour chase down the Los Angeles freeway? Whether he is found guilty or innocent, his fame (and financial status) has taken an upswing. Even if a person is found guilty, the sentence can be appealed, and appealed... At best criminals learn to use the criminal justice system should they become arrested again and at worst they receive free room and board, medical care, higher education, and a chance to lift more weights while learning new ways to break the ever present laws.

In America, illegal activity is growing as crime becomes more profitable. With a history of tolerance, fame and fortune it is no wonder that the statistics rise continuously within the borders of the United States. tes. As long as they can make a buck, criminals will continue to believe that crime pays well in America.





<ICLE-US-IND-0013.1>


I agree that in the past women have had problems with societies role of what they are expected to do in the work place and at home. Women have been looked down on if they try to get ahead and pay has differed with the same job for a man verses a woman doing the same job. Gone is the age that the woman is required to stay home. Now a lot of women work and the ones that want to stay home do it because they want to. A lot of what has changed women's roles is the feminists. These are groups of people that have defended women over the years.

These people have shown the modern world what women in the work place can do. The problem is that these feminists have not looked at all women. Some women were happy with old traditions, some wanted a bit more in their lives, some wanted a lot more in their lives. What happens is that all women have to go along with these feminists rules. This makes it hard, because if they don't, they are looked down upon by their piers. An example is military women wanting to serve in combat positions when at war. Feminists argued this a lot when the Iraq war was going on. They felt that women should have been given the chance to fight. I felt that these people were crazy. Women just can't fight in a war very well. The are not strong enough and if captured could be raped. They feel that it is not fair that men are the only ones. Other women, though, are glad that the rule in the United States stands as it does.

Feminists have talked about promotions in the work place as not being fair. Also sexual harassment is involved in a lot of suits. Many women believe that they are the victims. I agree that five to ten years ago this might have been true, but now many employers are the victims. They are scared of what a woman can do and sometimes women get looked at differently.

There are some things that women can do better than men and there are some things that men can do better than women. God would have created us all the same if this was not true. Feminists are trying to make everyone equal and that is impossible to do because nature cannot be changed. More and more office jobs are being filled by the woman but a lot of the physical jobs are still filled by men. I think that the traditional roles were a good thing, but the modernization has changed everyone's habits. Divorce is at fifty percent and rising, women are having more heart attacks, being more stressful, and kids are being more neglected.

Modernization is good, but I think that women should not be pressured into this if this is not for them. There will be a woman in the presidency, and running a lot more companies. Women should be created equal, but they can only do what nature intended they to do...












<ICLE-US-IND-0014.1>


I am a true believer in the old saying that crime does not pay. Why? Well simply because I was always told that whatever you do in the dark eventually comes to the light. A person that committs a crime will probably reap the benefits of whatever it is that they have done, for example, if I robbed a bank for about a cool million immediately afterwards I would probably feel really good, really financially stable and that if I got away with that then I could probably do something a little more complex or even dangerous for that matter. With this attitude someone could definitely headed for destruction. Its's like when you are a small child trying to see just how much your parents will let you get away with before they discipline you. For an individual that starts out doing small crimes (or less serious crimes that do not harm or endanger the life of another indivudual or a group of people) each time that they are not caught, that just makes them want to try just one more thing that they feel that they may just slide with, and the cycle goes on and on. Once you reach this stage you can consider yourself a habitual offender or someone that needs some kind of jail sentence, punishment or some type of deterent to stop you if not slow you down.

Besides the fact that you will eventually get caught doing a crime your punishment varies according to the type of crime or crimes that the individual has committed. For example you can expect to get a stiffer punishment for a crime whrn you have endangered someone's life or their personal safety in some way. For those of us who have consciences (especially me having a "weakness" for children) would never ever dream of committing crime that may endanger another individual's well-being.

Let's hypothetically say that these two guys rob this corner convenient store, and as they were making their rapid escape the owner of the convenient store runs out of the store and strats yelling and running after these two culprits; so one of the bad guys hurridly hands the "loot" to the other guy and tells him to run like hell and this guy, while still running, reaches into his inside jacket pocket, pulls out a gun and with intentions on stopping the convenient store owner from chasing them starts to shoot back at him. Now, maybe I should mention that this is a neighborhood where cars are driving down the street, children are playing and making constant trips back and forth to ths convenient store and generally, this in not a good place to start shooting with all these people standing around or in the vicinity. Let's hypothetically say that this crazy gunman accidentally shoots one of the children coming out of a building only seconds after the gunman has just run past the door that he just exited. Now the little boy just walked out between the gunman and the store owner. The store owner is a ways back but he is still persistant so he continues to chase the gunman. The gunman turns and shoots at the store owner again. At the same time the gunman shoots, the little boy is fully into the open not knowing that he just walked right in the middle of a chase and guess what happens. You know what happens... he literally walked right into a bullet. We won't make this hypothetical situation any worse so lets say that the young boy only gets grazed on his shoulder by the bullet. He is bleeding and quite shaken up, but he will definitely live. Oh, by the way the robber that was told to "run like hell" eventually got caught around the corner so when the mad gunman ran even faster to get away after he shot the little boy he too was apprehended. I told this story to make a point. Now, if these two guys had just robbed the convenient store and got caught, they probably would have only been punished or convicted for robbery, but since there was a weapon involved and numerous shots were fired and one of those shots just happen to make contact with another individual who just happen to be an innocent child that changes things. In addition to the robbery charge you can add attempted murder, assault with a deadly weapon and maybe even a few others. What started out to be just a simply robbery of the neighborhood convenient store ended up in an almost fatality or a situation where unintentional bodily harm was done to a child. Sounds like trouble to me. Something that was supposed to be so simple ended up to be a big mess.







<ICLE-US-IND-0015.1>

Money is the root of all evil is an ancient saying-- but its truth applies to all generations. The key is in the definition of term money; money, or whatever a group uses as a means of barter to obtain resources, represents power. Enough money gives you the power to get whatever you need to survive, lack of money may mean you can't survive. But the "power" money holds encompasses more than the ability to simply provide sustenance for life. The power of having money means social status, acceptance, prestige--a place in society--can be bought also. These results of having money sound like positive benefits, and in fact may be. But there is another side to possessing money.

Money of itself is neither good nor bad. Ones's attitude about money is the deciding factor that determines what influence money has. It can be an influence for evil if the need for whatever it buys is possessing the buyer--whether that is a physical or an emotional need. The list of addictions people develop are endless; drug use, gambling and prostitution are obvious problems, but there are others more subtle. The need for material possessions can be an addictive force behind one's need for money. The need for social prestige and the privilege that comes with it can be a force driving one to want more and more money. when the need for money becomes the driving force, some people will use whatever means it takes to get it--evil or not.

Wanting more and more, never being satisfied, can also be termed greed. Greedy people usually have one objective; to get what they want regardless of the consequences. Values and ethics play very little importance in structure of a greedy persons life and money is just a tool to gain what is needed. Money does good or evil--depending on who has the money















<ICLE-US-IND-0016.1>

I have been hanging around this continent for 40-plus years and, while I'm in favor of some of the causes that women are promoting, I disagree with much of it. I feel that chivalry is nearly dead because of the feminists in this country (USA). Men are confused whether to open a door for someone, pay for their dinner, or even touch their opposite-sexed dinner date, for fear of rejection and the "I'd rather do it myself" attitude. From personal experience, I have experienced dating in the 60's and dating in the 1990's. Believe me, things are much different now (1990's) than they were in the 1960's. Men were gentlemen in the 60's, felt that the woman was someone special and usually these men had parents with values that taught their children the proper traditional techniques on how someone should (and should not) act on a date. While I think that there are always exceptions to this rule, whether you are in the 60's or the 90's, however, the overall general attitude of men towards women was one of appreciation, respect, and wanting to 'find the right girl to marry'.

Now, after 30 years of a full-blown feminist movement, some of the causes that these feminist groups stand for are noble - such as equal pay for equal work, allowing the 'glass ceiling' (i.e., mostly male managers and CEOs at the top) to be broken through more than it used to be in the 60's, and not looking down on females as the 'Miss Susie Homemaker', while chastising these women for wanting careers outside the home. 

Nowadays, it takes two incomes to run a household; however, my point is that it's nice now that women have the choice of working or not working AND not have the stigmatism that they are bad people for not staying home to cook, clean, and take care of the children. (The drawback to that is that 'someone' must do it when he/she comes home from a day's work; and I do feel that the husband and wife together should share those duties when both are gainfully employed. If possible, hire a housekeeper to maintain things, which would leave more time to be spent with the children (if applicable), or more time to be spent with each other).

My argument is not that all the ideals that women have wanted to change from or advance to over the years are bad (i.e., going back to the 1920's and women finally getting the right to vote); they certainly are not. My argument is that in the realm of date, courting, and chivalry in general, it's nearly a lost art. I have heard from several male friends and a significant other of mine that they are confused on what to do on a date anymore. If they are too forward, they will be slapped with 'date rape' or 'sexual harassment'. If they offer to pay for dinner, they are told 'no thanks, Dutch treat...I have my own money." They say that 'women in general' are offended if you open doors for them, pull out their chair for dinner, etc., because it makes them appear weak. Well, I say and conclude that this is bunk! I guess I am too traditional, too much from the old school, and want to be courted, made to feel special, and I will do so in return. I'm not asking for the world from you men out there, just for some consideration towards traditional values that were the norm when I was first dating.






<ICLE-US-IND-0017.1>

The phrase <*> has been repeated many times but have you ever actually thought about the meaning? It contains a common truth that is to often overlooked: in the world crime actually costs money. As we read the daily paper, listen to the evening news or speak to other people we hear stories of how crime has robbed individuals of possessions, jobs and lives.

The individual who commits a crime, if and when they are caught will in most cases be faced with the loss of his or her freedom. If the individual is incarcerated whether for one hour or for a lifetime money will be lost on the cost of incarceration. This money may not come from the perpetrator of the crime but it will come from the individual's family, freinds and acquantances in the form of tax dollars. As the number of criminals increases so to will the tax money needed to house these individuals. 

The moral aspect of crime for the criminal is also something to take into account. For the most part when a criminal is faced with the prospect of losing his or her freedom the resulting emotion is remorse and sorrow. This is also true when the criminal is faced with the victims of the crime, the result of this realization is sometimes as emotional, if not more, as the loss of the one's own freedom. When convicted of a crime a mere "I'm sorry" will not undo the loss or pain already inflicted. The criminal will have to live with his or her actions as long as they live.

The law abiding citizen also knows that crime does not pay. When an area of a city becomes known for a high crime rate the result is a drop in the real estate value for that area. so even though an individual can try to add value to his or her real estate possessions in these areas the effect of crime will cause a direct loss of money for the law abiding citizen.

Once an individual has been convicted of a crime that person carries a label with them for the rest of their lives. On this basis alone they may be denied the oppurtunity for a job they want or the housing they desire. The label of "criminal" will be affixed to them for the rest of their lives and their is no escape.






















<ICLE-US-IND-0018.1>

I have heard this statement a number of times throughout my life. I am at that stage in my life where I believe it to be a question and not a statement. I have been particularly interested in organized crime for quite a few years. I have also seen a great deal of what is considered unorganized crime - crime of passion; heat of the moment. I can say that I am truly educated on "both sides of the track". 

I have opinions on both aspects of crime. I will begin with the unorganized first and save the best for last. To me, an unorganized criminal must be very good and have considered all aspects of what they are doing in order not to get caught. The types of crimes these individuals commit are things like: robbery, assault, rape, and theft. More or less, these are petty offenses because they do not hold a high dollar value. These people are usually somewhat less educated and believe what they do is essential for survival. I cannot comment on whether there is a valid reason for committing a crime or not, but I do know that life for some people is very difficult and unless someone can really feel and understand what others go through, they have no room to judge. This type of crime very rarely pays, because the criminals just are not that good. People tell others what they did and soon the word is out. There are - in many cases - witnesses to the acts. Aside from those, these criminals just do not have the money. This leads me to my next part.

In every facet of (almost) every country, there is some type of organized crime. I know this and the facts that I may use because of the Organized Crime & American Politics class that I am currently taking. We have come to know - in America - organized crime as relating to some sort of mafioso. This is false. Organized crime involves two or more individuals working together for the same cause, that is ongoing and an integral part of their daily lives. This type of crime includes, but is not exclusive to, running illegal gambling halls, selling drugs, getting government contracts for business, prostitution, and racketeering. All of these exist every day in tremendous numbers of cities and countries around the globe. It starts with the entrepreneur and works all the way to the highest city official, sometimes even state officials. There is one thing that makes this all possible: MONEY! Without the money, there will be no police protection, no ways around the rules and regulations, and definitely no customers. In the United States, the average amount of money spent on illegal gambling alone is $30 per person. Multiply that by the number of citizens living in this country and these people are making a BIG sum of money. The police and other government officials are willing to overlook the illegal acts because of the payoff they are receiving. Billions of dollars a year are turned over to the people who run these crime rings. Some ask why our tax dollars go to paying police when they only harass and arrest the petty criminals. The number one reason is that not only does our "protection" get a salary from tax dollars, but they make two or three fold that from protecting the organized criminals. We have a strange sense of values and standards in operation throughout our streets. The interesting thing is that this activity will continue until the end of time as long as there is money flowing in through the form of payoffs.

Unorganized crime does not pay, at least not very well. Organized crime, on the other hand, pays off quite handsomely. There are key points to this in that a person has to get in contact with the right people, which takes time. The persons must be patient and will to deal with others. There are certainly other important factors, but those are found out on a need-to-know basis. It has been said that "Money Is Power" and whomever coined this term is on point exactly. These things only happen with money and with money, a person can have ANYTHING they want. Now that you have read this and may be trying to figure me out, I will tell you about myself. My name is Thomas Vessely. I am a 21 year old male. My native tongue is English. I am studying business writing with a political science minor. I am currently a second semester junior.






<ICLE-US-IND-0019.1>

When I was a little girl, my mother and father always taught me the stealing was wrong and anyone caught stealing would be punished. I always believed them and they saying that <*>. Then about five years ago, someone stole from me and I did not think that they would have to pay for their crime.

It was a cold January day, and I had stayed home from work that day because I had a high fever and cold. I made an appointment with the doctor and had an appointment for one o'clock that afternoon. Upon return from the doctor's office, I walked in on a group of individuals robbing my house. I did not see them, but they did see me and they made it out of the house before I could call for police help. When the police arrived, I went with them into my house and found that everything, I mean everything, had been taken. My stereo, CD's, telephone, jewelry, my husbands firearms, clothes, furniture, everything was gone from my home. I was so upset and the police said that we would probably never recover any of our possessions.

After about two weeks of not living in our house, we returned but were still apprehensive about the fact that some thieves were getting away with a crime that they had no apparent reason to commit; at least in my mind. Finally, one afternoon, I received a call from the Indianapolis Police Department and they wanted my husband and me to come downtown and identify some of our property. We did and they had recovered some of our items from the trunk of an old car. I kept remembering what my father always told me about "crime not paying" and I knew for sure that they would eventually be caught.

Finally, after about two months, they did catch the people who broke into my house that day. Now the long and hard part was about to begin. We would have to go to court and testify that it was our home they stolen property came from and that these people did not have permission to be in our house. I did not know if I would be able to face these young men or not. I had been so scared to go into my house alone or be by myself since that awful day. It seemed that the court and trial process would go on for months or even years. We were constantly talking to attorneys and to policemen. We kept going over things and had to try so hard to come up with a complete list of everything that was taken from our house.

As we were going through all of this with the court system, prosecutors office told us there would probably be a plea bargain for the people that they caught and that they would probably would not serve any time for what they did. This upset me, because I felt like they were getting away with a crime and that I was the one that was being punished by being the victim. I kept remembering what my father told be about crime not paying and that if you took something from someone else there would be consequences. This bothered me so much that I made an appointment with the prosecutors office and told them how I felt and that as a victim I was being punished much worse than the criminals because I was going to have to live the rest of my life looking over my shoulder wondering if this was ever going to happen to me again or to someone else. My talk with them helped. They decided not to plea bargain and the two men and one women who invaded my life that cold January day in 1990, were going to go to jail.

I have trust in the legal system now. For whatever it is worth, I know that justice was served that day that we testified and those awful people were sentenced for the crime that they committed. For whatever money they received from our goods that were not recovered, I'm sure was not worth the time they will spend in prison as habitual criminals. I keep remembering my father saying "crime doesn't pay" and it certainly did not this time either.












<ICLE-US-IND-0020.1>

The only reason this statement exists is because of the misuse of the original term "feminist". What I mean by this is that if one looks back into the history of the feminist cause, the reason that women banded together was for recognition and equality, not for exclusivity. Nowadays, both "feminist" and "feminism" are dirty words because the cause has been misused by people who want women to be dominant rather than equal.

Susan B. Anthony originally led the cause because she felt that women should be given equal treatment in society. The ideas behind "feminism" were rooted in the ideal that all men, and women, were created equal and therefore should be treated so in the society in which they chose to live. Men had the exclusive rights to the vote, employment opportunities and other societal features that empower a human being to be innately whole. by this I do not mean that by receiving the right to vote and having a chance to get a good job you have found the meaning of life. Rather, the more people that feel comfortable that they have a say in how their life turns out, or is lived in general, the healthier the society. After all, if people feel comfortable with themselves they are more likely to feel comfortable with the people around them, which reduces conflict.

The concept many people today have of a "feminist" is that of a big chunky lesbian who hates all men. This is hardly the case. But, what has happened with the feminist cause is that many radical women have used it as an umbrella. If women can shout at the atrocities that have been thrown upon their gender and call it feminism then they can get away with it. If women can tell everyone that females should be the dominant gender and all men should adhere to their wishes and call it feminism then they are home free. Consequently, the feminist movement has become a shelter for the radical women to get angry under, to shout from and to feel safe within. Outsiders now see the feminist movement as a bunch of whining women, who don't want equality but want dominance.

I would call myself a feminist in the sense that I want equal treatment for men and for women; I would like women to be paid the same as men who have the same skills in the same job level. Now we see it as being absurd in America that women did not have a right to vote. A women is just as much a citizen of her country as her fellow brother, and voting is a citizen's right. The equality of woman is no such an absurd notion in the United States. What is absurd is to suggest that the movement has done more harm than good for women. It has raised consciousness about women's role in her society. It has made people aware that every human has just as much potential to prosper no matter what gender. There is a problem though, the problem is that one can see why the statement this essay is commenting on exists. There are inherent flaws in what is happening with feminism now. Some women are taking issues to an extreme and this is damaging all the achievements of the past: men are not taking the feminist cause seriously anymore. I think if you look at how women are now taken seriously when they report sex crimes, sexual discrimination and domestic violence one can see what wonders the feminist movement has done. However, some feminist groups will take cases to an extremes, fight tooth and nail to win a moot argument and be obstinate in their belief that all men are evil.

If society should learn anything from the turn of events, it is this: groups grow and change. The feminists have grown, they were radicals of their time, asking for gender equality and striving to obtain it. Now that women have partial equality, what next? Well many people see the feminist movement moving in the wrong direction. Feminists are becoming anarchists, demanding more than what they set out to gain. Let us remember the roots of feminism, keep in mind the rudimentary beliefs that lay the foundation for the solidarity of women. It was not to alienate men, which it seems like now, but rather to affirm their status as equal human beings. Many women, including myself, who consider themselves feminists have separated themselves from modern day feminism because it does not represent what it used to.






















<ICLE-US-IND-0021.1>

Whenever a movement is began whether it be political, religious, or artistic, stereotypes are quick to form. People normally associated with politics, religion, or art are quickly lumped into categories regardless of individual differences. This tragedy is worsened by the tendency of those outside the movement to remember the radical and ignore the common or ordinary. This is especially true of the Women's Liberation Movement in America.

Since its beginnings in the late nineteenth century, Women's Liberation has been met with adamant, and often obstinate oppostion. Some of the first radicals, Susan B. Anthony and George Sand (although French) were noticed and ridiculed, thus defeating their cause, because of their aggressive action. At the same time other feminists such as Emily Dickinson were virtually ignored during their lifetime and only acknowledged posthumously as being part of the movement. This ignorance of other less aggressive feminists, made it seem as though the feminist movement was headed only by wild, disgruntled zealots and was therfore, detrimental to the good of society.

Although "radicals" such as Sand and Anthony seem docile and backward in modern standards, the problem still exists. From the very beginning the Women's Movement in America has been fighting a losing battle. However, I contend that the fault does not lie with the radical members of the movement, but rather, in the perception of those observing the movement. 
When Women's Lib really took off again in the late 1960s, it was again destined for failure. Immediately, the focus was on radicals like Stein, instead of the housewife who returned to college and made a career for herself. Those outside the movement could only see the differences between "normality" and Women's Lib.

This is still true twenty-five years later. Women supporting equal pay for women and and other "liberal" causes like affirmative action are only seen in the shadow of the bra-burning, anti-shaving leaders of the 1970s. The good of their cause is undermined by the perception of the radicals.

So what am I getting at? Only that so-called feminists have not in and of themselves harmed the Women's movement.

However, the popular perception of them has. For so many years the good that feminists have promote for women has fallen by the wayside in lieu of other more interesting, i.e. radical ideas. Like many other aspects and movements in life, they would be more readiliy received if the public it was being aimed was not so jaded.
















<ICLE-US-IND-0023.1>

As women of the entire world gather now at the World Conference Women in Beijing, China, it seems only appropriate to discuss the impact of feminism on countries around the world. Because I myself am American, I will begin with what impact the cause has had on American culture.

This year our nation celebrates the anniversary of the Women's Suffrage Movement which resulted in the women of America being recognized as full citizens of America and thereby equal in stature to the men of America regarding voting rights. We hear the word "battle" used often when we read of the suffragates, those women who sought out their equality, labored for years to gain access to the political system, and finally won the right only after the power structure of American politics (a male-only bastion) heard their battle cries and acknowledged their determination to achieve equal status. No one today would say that women are not equal to men in the voting booths of America.

Does this "battle" continue? Those women who believe in equal opportunity, equal recognition, equal pay, and equal rights for all citizens regardless of gender certainly would say so. Undoubtedly, there are still those among us, both male and female, who resent women who have spoken out. Names like Betty Friedan and Gloria Steinam, women who made their mark as feminists of the '60s, are greeted with cheers or jeers from any crowd. The fact remains, however, that they were and continue to be influential in how America reacts and responds to its women. They have always preached the same sermon, from the same pulpit: <*>.Throughout America, a generation of young women, daughters of those women of the '60s now find doors of opportunity open to them which would have slammed in the faces of their mothers and grandmothers. Women's access to law schools, medical schools, college campuses, and corporate board rooms have expanded greatly because of the insistence of these early feminists. Everything from gaining admittance to formerly all-male military schools, though still a struggle, to being promoted in formerly all-male professions seems feasible.

In my opinion, America continues to set an example for women around the world.












<ICLE-US-IND-0024.1>


The first thing I wold like to address is the fact that this phrase is incorrect: "The Love of Money Is the Root of All Evil". I believe this corrected statement to be true. However, since the original subject is <*> I will have to disagree with this statement.

If money were the root of all evil, we all would have to be evil because we all have money. Some have more than others; some have less than others. Most money is attained in honest ways: through employment, investments, inheritances, and many other lucrative means. When money is accumulated by these means, it seems incorrect to say that money is the root of all evil. If one is attaining money honestly, how can honestly be associated with evil?

It is true to say that money is the root of some evil. People have lied, cheated, betrayed, stolen, and even murdered to attain money. These actions are evil and because someone wanted money, or wanted more money than they had, they resorted to evil to attain it.

Other things as well can be the root of evil: attitudes, morals (lack of), greed; there is an endless list of things that can become the root of evil. The love of money can indeed produce an attitude of dishonesty, a lack of morals, and greed.

If money was the root of all evil, then the many agencies, groups and programs that we have in America and around the world would not be able to function without the donations of money from those who are able to give. I have to agree that many times these worth-while causes are sometimes being used to satisfy an individual's greed; but I am sure that most if not all funds donated are used for the purposes intended in those agencies and programs which are reputable.

In conclusion, the root of all evil is the choice of the individual: will he choose to be morally decent, or will he choose to be evil?









<ICLE-US-IND-0025.1>

It's difficult to justify this saying in a world where money is power and power is everything. Without money nothing works. We went off the barter system years ago. So if one wants to eat, have some where to sleep, have transportation and clothing, the almighty dollar is a must.

It's probably more correct to say that, "Absolute power currupts absolute". Once ones basic and comfort needs are met, what's next, power or the power to influence. This begats the will for more power and the cicle goes on. Unless the individual has a good work ethic and good sence, the power can become intoxicating to the point of it being the obsession that controls a person's life.

Anything that comes easy most probably won't be as appreciated or valued as something that comes with effort. Money makes things happen, and quickly. If one has to work hard for their salary, they most likely will spend it more wisely than if someone always had plenty of money and never had to work for a living.

This brings up another theory of how people use money. Some use it to live and others live to use it. Money can be either a slave for us or it can make us slaves. Many people rate the quality of life and sucess by a dollar figure that they made last year. Others rate success one heir more substantive accomplishments that agree with their sense of values, of which money is not number one. The people who rate their success by that dollar figure also must compare and be competitive with others. The person who rates success on substantive accomplishments can stand alone and have self satisfaction.

Money is something that our society has made indespencable. It is for us to use, not for it to use us. We are to be the masters and use it for our needs and good. It is not to be our master.






<ICLE-US-IND-0026.1>

You hear people say <*>. What do they mean by this statement? Is money actually evil? Does it cause evil? If someone has money does it make that person evil?

I believe what they are trying to say is, you always want more that you have and the more you have the more you want. You want money, the things money can buy, and the power that goes with having money. This leads you away from the christian way of life and into a life of evil.

A christian has a God centered life. The christian way of life is often thought of as being subservant, living without material things, and always thinking of those less fortunate than you. Having money and power are unimportant to the person who has God as the center of their life.

If you lead a life that is based on how much money you have, you are always searching for the next dollar you will get and how you will get it. Your family and friends will become unimportant and you can become consumed with obtaining more money. You can be lead into gambling and the life associated with gambling. As your need for more money increases you will do almost anything for it.

Money is not evil. Money is incapable of being evil since it is a mear piece of paper or coins and can not make judgements and decisions. It is the person whose judgements, decisions, and actions that can be evil.

Money can be used to lessen the hardships in life. It can purchase homes for the homeless, buy food and clothing for the poor. Money can provide opportunities to educated the uneducated which will enable them to be able to provide a better life for themselves and their families.

Is money the root of all evil? I think not, it is all in how it is used and how you allow it to use you!






<ICLE-US-IND-0027.1>

I beg to differ; crime does pay. Many criminals live far better than the average American because they have chosen a life of crime. Being a criminal has it's advantages; you don't have to worry about being fired, you can make more money in less time, you set up your own hours because you're your own boss, and you can retire well before the age of 65.

Let's take time to compare the criminal life to the life of the hard working person. In our changing economy any individual who holds down a job must be concerned with rather or not he or she will continue to have that job. Many people are being laid off work or let go because the companies are no longer making enough profit to pay the employees. A criminal will always be employed. There is never a lack of work are a means for continuing employment.

Then if we think about the work day of most working people. The average worker works 8 hours per day. They make about $7.50 per hour for their labor. This is $300.00 per week before taxes and other deductions. Tax deductions will run about $69.00 per week and deductions for medical/dental insurance will costs them another $5.00 per week bringing their actual take home pay to $266.00 per week. The average criminal can work one hour a day and make $300.00 without having to be concerned with deductions for medical insurance and taxes. Further the criminal does not have to be at work at a specific time for a specific numbers of hours each day. The criminal is his/her own boss.

And finally, the one thing the criminal does have in common with the average worker; retirement. However the criminal can retire a lot faster than the worker if they (the criminal) have managed to save portions of the dollars they have stolen over the years. If a criminal starts at age 15 and works only 5 hours per week until age 30 he or she could be set for life. At $300.00 per hour over 15 years the criminal earns $1,170,000.00. If he/she invest half this money and earns interest they could potentially live on the interest income alone.

Comparing both options here, I'd definitely say that crime does pay.





<ICLE-US-IND-0028.1>
	

Drive down any street in urban America and you will see young males and females, both black and white, driving Pathfinders, BMWs, Mercedes, and other luxury automobiles. How do these young people acquire the funds to afford such expensive rides? They dress in Karl Kani, Pele Pele, and Guess? clothing. They wear Cartier wristwatches and expensive Nike footwear. Where do the funds come from to purchase these fashions? In many cases the answer is simple: crime. As unfortunate as it may sound, many youths are well aware of the fact that crime pays; and it pays well.

What alternative does an inner-city youth have when faced with inescapable poverty? The answer becomes apparent when he or she is often surrounded by criminals living larger than those taking a more "conservative" path to financial security. The philosophy is simple: if you want it, go get it--at any cost. The consequences are few, especially when one considers the shockingly low percentage of criminals who actually end up in jail. The only danger that exists for a criminal come from other criminals trying to take what's theirs.

Police are no threat as they are far outnumbered; it is virtually a game of chance as to wether one gets caught in an act of crime. Fortunately for the criminals, these odds are drastically in their favor. The public calls for more police but refuse to pay the taxes needed to hire them. . The few police on the street are thus often left chasing criminals like a dog chasing its tail.

If a criminal is apprehended, and in an odd circumstance is placed in jail for non-violent crime, it is only a matter of time (often a short amount of time) before he or she is free to return to the wealth and comfortable living supported by burglary, mugging, dealing, or simple con games. Jail space is reserved for murderers and rapists first (as it should be), and when a murderer is convicted and sentenced, a dealer is put back on the street.

What an ordinary citizen imagines when he or she witnesses or hears about a non-violent crime is a thug bent on destroying society: killing babies, smoking as much weed as he or she can get his or her hands on, etc. In reality these criminals are merely working a job that pays them better than any other. Why work at McDonalds where you are forced to work in a hot, cramped atmosphere, possibly with an overbearing boss who is stuck in a service job with no en in sight, making $5.00 an hour and shopping at K-Mart for clothes?

It is obvious that crime pays. The proof exists on any street in urban America: underprivileged youth rolling in luxury automobiles and rolling wads of money into their designer jeans. This is less of a choice than it is an act of taking advantage of an opportunity. There are few alternatives for low-income youths, and fewer obstacles in the quest for cash. With violent crime rising and financial support for more police falling, crime will continue to pay.


<ICLE-US-PRB-0034.2>
	When one thinks of the worst problem facing the young people today, things such as drug abuse and crime are the first things to come to mind, yet arguably, the worst problem concerning are young people today is adolescent suicide. Adolescent suicide is a major problem in our society that gets less attention than the other big problems in our society such as guns and drugs. Being that its a very sensitive, horrifying, and contraversal issue, its one of the less publically broadcast problem in society today. Suicide gets most of its attention only when its a well known public figure. Suicide used to be just an adult problem, but over the years suicide has decreased for all groups of people except young people <R>. Before 1960, there wasn't much literature about adolescent suicide, but after an epidemic of suicide clusters in the on-coming years and a steady rise in adolescent suicide, the media and researchers took notice <R>. From 1959 to 1982, suicide rates for the ages 15 through 24 jumped from 4.9 per 100,000 to 12.1 per 100,000 <R>. And in 1987, the age range of 15 through 19 rates were 10.3 alone <R>. Although the number of suicides by adolescents in recent years are phenomenal, the attempts are even more phenomenal. The suicide attempt rates for people under the age of 19 jumped from 50:1 in 1964 to 312:1 in 1984 <R>. In general, white males are the leading suicidal victims over any other race or gender, but adolescent suicide is still a major social problem for all races and genders, specifically black males and black and white females <*> <R>.
	During the years of this rise in adolescent suicide, there have been many works and studies done on this issue of adolescent suicide. These works and studies has looked at this issue from many different angles. Some researchers have just looked at statistical data ;while, others have focused on how to recognize and prevent the suicide from happening. There have also been many case studies done on individuals looking for the cause and effects of adolescent suicide, but a different way at looking at this problem and see the causes is to look at the problem theoretically. Thus, relating the social problem of adolescent suicide to theoretical perspectives and social theorists that best relate to this issue of adolescent suicide giving a better social understanding of the reasons why such a phenomena exists. Two theories that relate with the issue of adolescent suicide are the Structural Functionalist and Conflict theories. 
	When looking at Structural Functionalism and adolescent suicide and how they both relate, there is only one theorist who ties them together best. That theorist is Emile Durkheim. Durkheim was the most influential theorist in the shaping of the Structural Functionalist theory. <*> <R>. Durkheim also focused society's effect on the individual. And being that Structural Functionalist argues that society is made up of functional parts, Durkheim's major theory states that society at the surface or observable level is made up of rationally integrated and functional parts, but its supported by nonrational feelings, needs, beliefs, and values that have their basis in the deeper survival instincts of the human species. This is a basis for Durkheim's position on suicide. <*> <R>. These views of Durkheim on the individual and suicide led him to write a book on the subject so appropiatly entitled Suicide. In Durkheim's book Suicide Durkheim developed there classifications of the types of suicide. The types of suicides are egoistic, anomic, and altruistic.
	Egoistic suicide is when one attempts suicide because of a lost sense of bondness or a feeling of being isolated or detached. This goes right along with adolescents who has felt a sense of isolation or detachment because of one thing or another. <*> <R>. And a young girl in a case study in Rabkins book on adolescent suicide stated that she'd look at everyone around her and feel different and crazy <R>.
	Anomic suicide is when the victim no longer feel a system of social constraints of what they do, and normative regulation surrounding individual conduct are relaxed, and there is no clear standard for life or behavior. Also, everything they understood had suddenly changed, and life as they knew it had changed. Two examples of this kind of suicide in adolescents are adolescents who have experienced the death of a parent and adolescents who have experienced the death of a parent and adolescents who has moved from one place to another. <*> <R>. And as stated by a young lady in Rabkin's book Growing Up Dead. <*> <R>.
	Although Durkheim's egoistic and anomie suicide relates well with adolescent suicide, Durkheim's altruistic suicide doesn't. Altruistic suicide occurs more in adults than adolescents, for it occurs when there is an overly strong regulation on the individual such that the individual feels that some social requirement is of greater importance than the individuals own life. This is common with adults holding positions in society, being occupational, political, or otherwise.
	Another theory that relates with adolescent suicide is the conflict theory. And the theorist that best relates this theory to adolescent suicide is Karl Marx, for the conflict theory was derived from Marx in the 19th century. The conflict theory is based partially on conflict theorists seeing society as being in a constant state of change produced by many different avenues, and children and adolescents are the greatest affected by such changes. the theory of dialectics states that society is a moving balance of opposing forces that generate change by their tension and struggle, and the principle of Marxian dialectics states that the seeds of any new social order are present in the existing one. this goes right along with the fact that many adolescents who attempt suicide are products of suicidal families, and being from suicidal families increases the chances of becoming suicidal. Marx also said that people are not programed robots that will act in certain ways. They will act and react to their self-interest, ideas, knowledge they have, and the pressures of their situation. This point goes back to why many adolescents see suicide as their only or best way out of their situation. <*> <R>.
	Although these theoretical perspectives differ and relate to adolescent suicide differently, they do share a common ground in relation to adolescent suicide, and that common ground is depression. There are no theories, theorists, researchers, or even case studies that argue that adolescent suicide isn't a direct result of depression. <*> <R>. Everyone experiences some type or form of depression during his or her life. Its the magnitude of the depression that brings one to contemplate suicide. <*> <R>. Depression can be much more dangerous in adolescents than adults because adolescents don't handle depression as well. <*> <R>.
	Adolescent suicide is a major problem in today's society. Theoretically speaking, maybe one has to look backwards to better understand their movements forward.

<ICLE-US-PRB-0035.2>
	Many times people do not recognize their normal, everyday activities as causing water pollution. Individual actions may seem minimal: draining used anti-freeze onto the ground, dumping untreated human waste from a boat, allowing the car to 'leak a little oil', or over-applying fertilizer to the lawn. However, these small actions combined together could overwhelm a waterbody and cause a degradation of water quality and a loss of water uses such as swimming, fishing and boating. <*> <R>.
	The focus of this paper is on water pollution and its' relationship to the Exchange Theory and the Rational Choice Theory.
	Human life is dependent on the presence of fresh water. Humans only get less than 3% of the planet's fresh water supply. Most of this-water is tied up in glaciers, ice caps and snow fields, yet only a fraction is easily accessible for human race. Therefore, we must take responsibility for the water we do have. <*> <R>. Human activities have always led to fresh water pollution, as well as influenced our planet's ecosystem; we must now be able to take responsibility for this behavior.
	To look at fresh water pollutants, it is best to divide then into four major categories: Infectious agents, organic chemicals, inorganic chemicals and radioactive materials. Infectious agents are made up of bacteria, viruses and parasites. The main source of these agents are human excrement which are untreated and enter the water cycle. This can have an immediate effect on human health. Organic chemicals include pesticides, fertilizers, plastics, detergents, oil and gasoline. Inorganic chemicals are acids, caustics, salts and metals. Radioactive materials are very rare. They can have natural sources or nuclear waste sources.
	As for sources of pollution, there are two- non-point and point source water pollution. Point source pollution is predictable and easily detected. An example of point source pollution is a discharge from a drainpipe. Non-point source pollution does not have a specific location and it unknowingly contaminates water supply. An example of this is leaking oil from an engine and the rain carrying it to a water source. Non-point water pollution is regarded as the most serious war pollution threat in the United States.
	The Rational Choice Theory is <*> <R>. This relates to water pollution in that society would benefit more if they were informed of the negative effects of water pollution. Some points to consider: The Centers for Disease Control identified 554 human diseases from contaminated water between 1972 and 1990; since 1988, more than 7,700 beaches have been closed due to water pollution and that does not even come close to the amount of possibly dangerous water society consumes; also, a large number of water bodies (one out of ten ocean miles and one of five lake acres) are not safe for swimming. All of these figures and conditions arose from water pollution and companies that contributed to this problem. Rational Choice Theory urges <*> <R>. Companies need to have a fuller sense of the negative and harmful effects of water pollution. The best way to promote awareness is to educate individuals and communities and to insure the cooperation and understanding that everyone will work together to combat this problem. Clean water can be a clear choice. Also, like the text says, companies need to have a greater concern for water and why it should not be polluted. It is now considered: a violation of the law to to pollute- water. The Clean Water Act was passed in 1972 to try to gain control of water pollution. It has been fairly successful in minimizing water pollution since 1972, yet <*> <R>. Thereby, if companies were made aware of the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) desires for improvements and tribulations they have faced, conditions might improve. As for now though, the EPA has stated <*> <R>. Are companies aware of the situation of our water supply? If they are, then, in regard to the Rational Choice Theory, do companies want to improve conditions of our water supply? The Rational Choice Theory states that individuals are driven by personal beliefs. Therefore, studies need to be done or presented to these individuals so that they can, in turn, see, know and understand water pollution. Personal beliefs are propounded by  these studies and rational choices are consciously made by these beliefs. The Rational Choice Theory is directed by personal beliefs and knowledge of a situation. It can fit into the study of water pollution in that it is individualized and consequential of our actions. Water pollution is a situation that, in this theory's case, needs to be highly publicized and personalized.
	The Exchange Theory deals with patterns of reinforcement and the situation of rewards and costs. The Exchange Theory has little interest in consciousness. It focuses on the precept that people do things that they are rewarded by. Therefore, water pollution can be directed in this case by showing the costs and rewards people receive from water pollution. Also, water pollution needs to be displayed as degrading to the environment and human health. People who have a negative interaction with an object, such as water, will then resign themselves from interacting with it. If the water does not taste good, people will realize it, form their own opinion and stop drinking it. This is highly personalized and fits into the Exchange Theory. Therefore, in the case of water pollution, to help combat it, there needs to be more interaction with the problems of pollution, such as the taste or the negative impact on one's health. Also, the Exchange Theory is based on a system of reinforcement. If one has grown up washing their car engine near a drain or water source, then they obviously do not realize the consequences of these actions. People need to be "awakened" in a sense and shown the negative effects many of our trivial actions have on the environment. The Exchange Theory is similar to the Rational Choice Theory in that, it too, is a very personal one and situations are highly individualized. Another concept of reinforcement is that of being seen as a reward, if an actor is deprived of this reward then  she will no longer participate in this action. Therefore, if the actor is deprived of quality water then she will recognize the course that has resulted due to human actions. This is significant because water is something that we need in order to survive and without water one cannot function. Therefore, ones' behavior can be modified to better the situation of water pollution. The Exchange Theory also states that <*> <R>. In this case society needs to step in and provide rules such as the Clean Water Act to help improve the situation of water pollution. An important note to remember is that between 1971 and 1990, more than 14,000 people nationwide have become ill from contaminated drinking water. In this instance, water pollution is individualized in its' effects on humans and their health. In terms of costs and rewards, companies may pollute unknowingly and their actions may be detrimental, therefore, companies should take notice of where their excess goes. As for rewards, companies could get low cost disposals, profits, less time spent on disposal, easy access to water sources for dumping and conservation of space due to this dumping. Society could make non-polluting beneficial by showing  the negative effects pollution has on society and individuals. Such things as swimming, boating, drinking water all have a personal effect on society. Thereby, due to people's continued actions, pollution is not beneficial for humankind or animal life. Also, in terms of financial means, it costs more to the planet to pollute than it does to save someone time or money spent on removing waste. Contemporary Journal reports that <*>. Water pollution only harms and takes away from nature's resources.
	Water pollution is a serious problem that society faces today. It is not only an environmental problem, but a social one as well. <*> <R>. If people are driven by their beliefs (such as the Rational Choice Theory) and if people interact to  those things they experience (such as the Exchange Theory), then sociologists can make a connection with these theories and water  pollution. The reason behind this is that water pollution can be an  individualizing as well as a societal phenomena in its' effect on society. In Milwaukee, dozens of AIDS patients died prematurely due to an outbreak of a microorganism that went undetected in the water treatment plant and resulted in thousands becoming ill and many dying. Therefore, water pollution is a societal problem that we all must take responsibility for!


<ICLE-US-PRB-0036.2>
	Pot, grass, reefer, kif, Mary Jane, ganga, herb, dope, tea, weed... nicknames for an ancient drug called marijuana When the dried leaves of the cannavis sativa plant are smoked, alone or in combination with tobacco, the result is a "high" that ranges from the mildly pleasant to the highly intoxicating. The effect depends on the strength of the drug and the amount smoked. Although there are hundreds of ingredients in marijuana, the main ingredient is a chemical called tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). THC affects the brain and circulatory system, especially the heart. It makes the heart beat faster-sometimes dangerously fast-and causes small blood vessels to expand. This is most visible in the eyes, where tiny capillaries swell and fill with blood, giving the eyes a bloodshot look. 
	"Marijuana" is the Mexican colloquial name for a-plant known to botanists as cannavis sativa. Marijuana has been cultivated for at least 5,000 years; it is one of the oldest agricultural commodities not grown for food <R>.
	In 1914 El Paso, Texas, enacted perhaps the first United States ordinance banning the sale or possession of marijuana; by 1931 twenty-nine states had outlawed marijuana. In 1937 Congress passed the marijuana Tax Act, effectively criminalizing the possession of marijuana throughout the United States. In 1970 the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act finally differentiated marijuana from other narcotics and reduced federal penalties for possession of small amounts. As directed by Congress, President Richard Nixon appointed a bipartisan commission to study marijuana. In 1972 the Schafer Commission issued its report, advocating the decriminalization of marijuana for personal use- a recommendation that Nixon rejected. However, eleven states, containing a third of the country's population, decriminalized marijuana in the 1970's, and most states weakened their laws against it. The 1980's however saw an enormous turnaround on the views on marijuana. Ronald Reagan's election brought the war on drugs to the White House. In 1980 the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) called marijuana the most urgent drug problem facing the United States <R>.
	This paper will focus on the problems caused by marijuana being criminalized and the positive things that could happen with marijuana being legalized. This paper will focus on marijuana being used as medicine, industrial fabrics, and for personal use. It win also focus on the problems that could be avoided with the decriminalization of marijuana, such as overcrowded prisons, lenient action taken on violent crimes, such as rape and murder, and the lack of good, intelligent judges. This paper will also focus on the key positive aspect of legalizing marijuana-the enormous amount of revenue it would bring to our government. All of the issues mentioned above will be studied through the structural functional theory, the exchange theory, or the conflict theory.    
	Using marijuana as medicine is not a new idea. In 1993 scientists in Israel exhumed the body of a woman who died in childbirth 1600 years ago. These scientists found a burned material they identified as marijuana. It was evidently used to ease the pain of a difficult labor <R>.
	However, today marijuana is not widely accepted as legal for medicinal purposes. Pot is currently classified as a Schedule 1 controlled substance. This implies that pot has a high potential for abuse, no officially accepted medical uses, and no safe level of use under medical supervision. This statement is very alarming because pot is one of the few known therapeutically active substances for which there is no well-defined fatal dose. It has been estimated that a person would have to smoke a hundred pounds of marijuana a minute for fifteen minutes in order to induce a lethal response <R>. Even more alarming is the fact that heroine, LSD, and peyote are other Schedule1 drugs. Cocaine and POP are listed in Schedule 2, allowing doctors to prescribe them <R>. 
	On March 18th 1992 the DEA rejected the pleas of medical-marijuana advocates to reclassify the drug so that it could be prescribed by doctors, even though marijuana could do a great deal of good for a great number of people. Lester Grinspoon, an associate professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, believes that marijuana will someday be hailed as a "miracle drug," one that is safe, inexpensive, and versatile. Like many doctors, Grinspoon states in his book, Marijuana. The Forbidden Medicine (1993) that smoking marijuana can relieve the nausea associated with chemotherapy, prevent blindness induced by glaucoma, serve as an appetite stimulant to AIDS patients, act as an anti-epileptic, ward off asthma attacks and migraine headaches, alleviate chronic pain, and reduce muscle spasticity that accompanies multiple sclerosis, cerebral palsy, and paraplegia <R>. Even with all of this being stated the DEA will still not legalize marijuana for medical purposes. The sick people that could be helped with doctor prescribed pot should be the first priority foe the DEA. However politics is often involved. In 1991 a Public Health Service (PHS) spokesman admitted that for the government to say pot could be therapeutic would be an unwise signal to send during a "mar on drugs." Recently James Mason, head of the PHS offered this excuse for not allowing pot for medicinal purposes- he feared the AIDS patients, crazed on pot would be more likely to practice unsafe sex.
	Despite all of the negative attention medical-marijuana has received, there are still those who endorse its use. A recent study by two Harvard drug-policy researchers found that almost half of 1,035 oncologists surveyed said they would prescribe pot if it were legal. Also, 44% of them said they had advised patients to smoke pot despite the possibility of prosecution. PHS has some arguments against marijuana use by AIDS patients-mainly that it contains carcinogens and it may harm the immune system of AIDS patients. This argument seems to be irrelevant because pot has not been proven to be a carcinogen and :pot's main ingredient, THC, is already sold in pill form as Marinol. According to the Harvard study, 77% of those oncologists who had an opinion on the matter say smoking marijuana is more effective than oral THC. Because puffs are easier for patients to measure than pills, it is also less likely to get them uncomfortably high. Furthermore, AZT, the most effective AIDS treatment, causes cancer in animals, and it is legal to give patients. Lastly AIDS patients are willing to risk anything to recover <R>.
	So far thirty-five states have endorsed medical-marijuana. In San Francisco:-police have agreed to turn a blind eye to it. Unless the government does something similar, smoking marijuana to relieve intolerable discomfort will remain, incredibly, a crime <R>.
	Using pot as medicine indeed seems very functional for our society. By legalizing it as medicinal, doctors will be able- to supervise its use for the patients. By keeping it illegal, not only will sick patients be prosecuted and most likely thrown in jail, creating even more-social problems, such as overcrowded prisons, but they will also use it unwisely without doctors supervision. In addition to this the Exchange Theory applies. There are rewards to using pot as a medicine. It could at the very least relieve some very  sick people of some pain. At the very most it could be an aid to curing diseases. The one main cost would be that patients could abuse pot as a form of treatment; but as was already stated this could be monitored by a doctor.
	Overcrowded prisons is another concern of pro-legalization advocates. Since the latest war on drugs began in the 1980 s, the nation's prison population has more than doubled. The majority of these prisoners are first time offenders who have no history of violence. Some people would argue that this is for purposes of crime control. This function is not being accomplished however. There has been no decrease in the use of marijuana. In fact marijuana is making a huge comeback, especially for high school and college students. The costs are great when it comes to imprisoning people for the possession or use of marijuana. Rapists, murderers, and other violent criminals are often released from prison to make room for people who have been incarcerated because of marijuana. The rewards of keeping dangerous people in prison and off of the streets far outweigh the so-called crime-control policies of the opposition of legalizing marijuana. Therefore according to the-Exchange Theory rewards should overpower the costs, therefore sending signals to people in power that this way of justice is not only not working, but is also dangerous. Marx's conflict theory can also be applied to this area of justice. The most likely people to become incarcerated for anything related to pot are the lower class. The middle and upper classes use pot just as frequently, if not more than the lower class. However, money and prestige have power; power enough to keep some people out of prison. Using Marx's  conflict theory, the lower class will become frustrated and enraged by this blatant lack of justice and a class conflict will arise.
	Marijuana stalks contain fibers that can be woven to make rope, canvas and paper <R>. This is a very important function of the United States economy. There has been so much attention in the past few years about goods made in the United States. About 25% of the pot available in the United States is grown here. By growing pot in the United States and using it for industrial fabrics the United States not only makes money but it saves it because less imports are needed of such items and because pot is so inexpensive to grow and cultivate. There would also be less conflict between the unemployed and the employed. Jobs would be made available by the new industry of marijuana. The unemployment rate would go down and people would be more pleased to buy American made products. Once again the rewards are many. 
	Another problem brought about because of the criminalization of marijuana is the increasing number of judges retiring. The anti-drug mandatory-minimum sentences have created dissension in the federal legal system. A lack of respect for the profession (judge), a sentencing process that often reduces judges to the status of adding machines, a staggering backlog of drug cases, and a widespread sentiment that judges are not to be trusted in choosing sentences (it is now up to the District Attorney in drug cases), may all combine to persuade highly qualified people to avoid the bench <R>. Marx's conflict theory could apply here because there is sure to be tension between judges and the system. Already some of the tension has appeared causing many capable judges to retire. Justice is one of the most important components of our society. With the level of justice falling due to the retirement of good judges, the entire structure is changing. This could become a trend-weak judges on the bench not offering any real justice. Once the function of justice is deadened, so too will be the structure of society as we know it. The rewards of good judges and equal justice outweigh the rewards of speedy, unfair trials and full prisons.
	Marijuana is also associated with a very ugly part of our society-crime. Pot represents a significant part of the international drug trade, a network of organized crime, and lately, terrorists, who use the proceeds to finance terrorist activities throughout the world <*>. There are also many thefts and breakins because people are trying to obtain pot. Obviously prison time does not serve as a deterrent. The entire harmony and structure of society is being threatened because crime is so rampant. People are going to obtain pot any way they can. The law should focus its attention on violent criminals not on people whose sole crime is getting high. Would it not make sense to reduce crime by simply legalizing marijuana?
	The final aspect in legalizing marijuana is the amount of revenue it will bring to the United States. The value of America's annual marijuana crop is staggering. Plausible estimates start at four billion dollars and range up to twenty-four billion dollars.  In 1993, the value of the nation's largest cash crop, corn, was roughly sixteen billion dollars <R>. The United states government is so far in debt now the legalization of pot could only help the economy. The government spent around thirty billion dollars at state, federal, and local levels to fight marijuana. With all of the money spent on fighting pot we could pay off some of the debt or use it on something else like education. The rewards of billions of dollars coming in is far greater than the cost of billions of dollars leaving the government's pockets. Part of the function of our society is to make money. The sale of marijuana could greatly benefit that function. By legalizing pot the black market would also very soon disappear. Not only would pot be cheaper if it were legal; it would be monitored by the government, but the marijuana would also be pure and safe. By growing it here, the government could make sure that no other drugs were mixed in with the pot.
	The legalization of marijuana for purposes of medicine, recreation, and industrial fabrics, has many positive aspects. A Few negative aspects are brought up by the opposition. However, by using the Exchange Theory, Conflict Theory, and Structural Functional Theory to analyze the social problem of criminalization of marijuana it is clearly shown that the rewards of legalization outweigh the effects of keeping pot ideal. In addition to this is one main reason why pot should be legalized-Not a single death has ever been credibly attributed directly to smoking or consuming marijuana in the 5,000 years of the plant's recorded use <R>. This is simply amazing considering the fact that alcohol and over-the-counter medications are legal and have causes many more than one death.

<ICLE-US-PRB-0037.2>
      A basic right of a human being living in a democratic society is that they are entitled to life. Food and shelter are fundamental needs a person must have in order to survive. A percentage of the population of the citizens of America lack these necessities. Homelessness has become an intense problem in the United States that must be solved. There is an agreement between all opposing viewpoints in government that something must be done that to combat homelessness. The necessary method to be used to understand homelessness is under careful scrutiny. Advocates for people without homes tend to get so wrapped up in the size of the homeless population that they ignore the fact that it is not right that this discrepancy exists. What is true is that in the United States it is continually growing, and action must be taken immediately to alleviate the problem.
      People living without shelter has been a problem in America since settlers from Europe came. Coming to America meant freedom and opportunity to the early settlers. They arrived in masses to the coast penniless and with no shelter. Throughout history this trend has continued. During the 19th century, industry in this country rose to new heights. Numerous factories developed, in these factories the workers had a great insecurity about their job permanence. Unemployment became a live threat to most working Americans. Impoverished people were interpreted negatively as seen in the book Homelessness: A Sourcebook by Rick Fantasia and Maurice Isserman which states that <*>. Cheap labor was a direct result of trying to distinguish between the homeless that deserved help and the ones that did not. The cheap labor was used in industry and it provided the authorities with an excuse to limit the funds that had been designated for the poor.
      During the middle of the 19th century there was an increased desire to help the homeless. In this movement poorhouses were established. As  with the cheap labor, poorhouses were only available to the people that were the most "deserving" of the poor. This attempt did not help prevent homelessness. The establishement of poorhouses only separated the general public from the people without homes to a greater extent. Tramps were part of the homeless community living in the poorhouses. There was also an increase in migratory workers during this time. People were forced to go where the jobs were and leave their families behind. In the 1870s the economy became much more stable than it had been before. Permanent work became an option for a greater amount of people during this time.
      In the early period of the 20th century everything changed. The economy shrank and the Great Depression began. This made the problem of homelessness become more numerous than ever. Millions of people lost their homes and their lobs. Consequently, unemployment and homelessness were dramatically increased. People were forced to move to other areas of the United States. Many people were hungry and dying. They were desperate to find some form of relief. President Roosevelt passed some social legislation as a direct reaction to the Great Depression. This form of legislation was new, and it brought about the recognition of the actual nature of poverty in an industrial nation. It made people aware of the social and economic basis of poverty.
      Later in the 20th century, people began to have a negative perception of homeless people once again. During the 1950s, the stereotypical alcoholic person without a home became what people saw. Homelessness became a larger problem during the 1960s and 1970s when the deinstitutionalization of the mentally ill occurred. This was the movement to empty the mental institutions. As a consequence the number of homeless that are mentally ill are still high today. The homeless were still looked down upon during this time. But, the 1980s showed a little more compassion towards the homeless. A major concern of the nation was once again homelessness. In the early 1990s the general public had begun blaming and demeaning the homeless. Many people even became violent towards the homeless. People have now become separated on how to actually solve the problem of homelessness.
      The ability to pinpoint the exact number of homeless people is practically impossible. There are the homeless that sleep on the streets and under bridges, and many find refuge in abandoned buildings. People without shelter also stay with friends or family. There is no possible way to count all of these people. Arguments about the homeless tend to become obsessed with the actual figures concerning homelessness instead of simply saying there is a problem that must be fixed. An abundant amount of families are on the brink of being without a home. Some are  only one paycheck away from being homeless.
      The cause of homelessness involves a combination of factors which makes the problem extremely complex to solve. During the 1960s and 1970s there was a movement to empty the mental institutions and by doing this those mental patients were forced into the streets. Also, another component of the cause of homelessness is the dramatic increase in the cost of housing. This increase has essentially priced the poor out of the housing market. The housing for low income families has dropped as well. Real estate agencies have also conspired against the poor in order the "clean our cities." They have virtually taken the land in the cities away from the poor. Funding from the federal government for housing for the poor has declined. Technology has also played a part in replacing the jobs of the poor with computer run factories. Low skill jobs are difficult to find and most poor are not qualified for anything else.
      In the homeless community there are a disproportionate amount of minority groups. There is a concentration of African-Americans in the urban areas which are hit the hardest by the unequal educational opportunities in the cities. Because of this discrepancy in education, an uneven number of African-Americans are forced to take the jobs available to them because of their lack of education. Therefore, there are an unequal amount of African-Americans and other minorities out on the streets or without a home because of such discrimination. 
      Homelessness is an obvious problem which is in desperate need of a remedy. Throughout history sociologists have examined social problems with the hope of trying to find a rational solution to the issues. They have done this by applying certain sociological theories to the social problems. There are many theories that may be used, and it is the sociologists choice on what the most appropriate route to use in analyzing the problem would be. One such theory is the conflict theory. Competition is at the heart of this theory. Everyone is fighting for what resources they see to be rightfully theirs.
      Conflict theorists see the people in power in society exploiting the less advantaged people that lack that power. The elite with power are small in number but are able to rule over the majority. Part of the powerless majority are the homeless. They are taken advantage of by the United States government. But, conflict theorists recognize that the people being controlled disagree with their impoverished situation and will seek to change it. Change is a term most often associated with conflict theorists because they see society as constantly in chaos and undergoing change. The powerless people in society will try to overturn the powerful ruling class. These negative feelings of the powerful to the powerless and vice versa contributes greatly to the consent unrest socked endures. Social problems develop from this consistent turmoil. For the homeless to make any permanent advances is virtually impossible in this unending cycle of chaos.
      Under this theory, the people with the power are the reason there are people without homes. The powerful people in society are immensely greedy and take everything for themselves. They have no regard for anyone else. The results of these inequities are poverty, homelessness, discrimination, and oppression. The people naturally react to this injustice and more social problems arise. Revolts by the powerless toward the powerful often develop. Some side effects of these revolutions are crime, violence, and rebellion. This unequal distribution of power is a cause of homelessness. If this persists, there will always be someone above another and nothing can be equal that way. Also, human nature guides people to look after their own interests which brings about conflict because some have more than others. This inequality is the basis for numerous social problems. Any time one person has more than another problems will occur.
      Conflict theorists make the observation that conflict only originates between groups that have common interests. If two groups have nothing in common that they are working for then their paths never cross. Therefore, there is conflict between the homeless and those of power in society. They both are fighting for what they see to be rightfully theirs. This also causes a problem because each group only sees what they are personally after and are virtually blind to the other side's needs. The government only sees that their streets do not look as good if there are people without homes on them digging through the garbage cans. The homeless and their advocates only see the injustice of the situation and believe that they deserve shelter as a human being in a democratic society. 
      The people in power also must be flexible in their actions and beliefs in order to maintain their position in power. Contact theorists believe that the powerful should give to the poor as little as possible to keep a revolution from taking place. There are certain sacrifices that must be made in order to make peace between the two opponents. The attempts to carry on stability by the people in power is totally in their self-interest. If a revolution occurs and social change is sought there will be more problems for the powerful than if they compromised and gave a little to appease the powerless. Brute force and coercion are also methods of the people with the power to keep their advantage. So, if the homeless in society get unruly or out of hand the government may give money for an extra shelter or pass another powerless law that serves no purpose but of for the lawmakers to say they have done something to alleviate the problem. This competitive struggle is always happening whether bluntly open for the public to see or hidden from the community. 
      An emphasis is placed by conflict theorists on certain issues that are about disorder and instability. They focus on social problems that bring division in society. Homelessness is definitely one of these social problems. Conflict theorists also believe that resources for the people are always scarce so that there is competition for those that exist. This is true in relation to homelessness. Adequate housing, available jobs, and proper education and opportunities to everyone are definitely hard to find for many Americans. One thing that is readily accessible to impoverished people is one of the major causes of their indigent circumstances. This is drugs. Drug use has increased dramatically in the homeless community. The resources that are desperately needed by those without shelter are not available to them. Most of them have no knowledge of how to maintain what little they possess. For these and many other reasons poverty is a constant cycle that occurs throughout generations.
      The people in power also have control over what society deems to be deviant. What they label as against the norm inevitably sticks, and most of the population adopts this view. In this decade the people in the government have tagged the homeless as lazy and deserving of their degrading status. Thus, many people follow this way of thinking and blame the victim instead of attempting to combat the problem that faces them. This demonstrates the powerful's ability to dictate the people in the society's values and behaviors. People tend to mindlessly follow what others lead them to do and this is shown in people's reactions toward the homeless. In the 1980s, people were much more sympathetic to the problem and willing to try things to help the impoverished.
      The most pertinent aspect of the conflict theory to homelessness is the belief by them that the ownership of property is a definite source of power. Obviously the people without homes have no chance. One way this theory can be used educate people on ways to ease the problem of homelessness is to recognize the validity of property being a means of power. If more property was made available to those without shelter then maybe the hierarchical distribution of power could be decreased also. According to conflict theorists, this would disrupt the whole balance of society. But, this aspect of conflict theory could prove to be extremely beneficial in the fight against homelessness.
      Although conflict theorists focus on the division of society into two distinct groups, symbolic interactionists look at the symbols in the community people live in. Symbolic interactionists actually view the world by way of symbols. They attach significance to them and believe that they are a means of communication. Symbols are used as a representation of something else. Under this theory, if people are taught to put a negative connotation with a certain symbol people do. This seriously effects how people view others in society. The government and the media portray certain people in a poor manner and the majority of the population blindly follows what they say. For instance, the majority of society relates negatively to people without homes. This proves the symbolic interactionist's theory.
      The characteristics of symbols have an impact on how people perceive things also. Our culture places negative characteristics on certain figures in the community which eventually become a way of life for most people. The majority of people just adopt this way of thinking without even thinking twice about its validity. This also applies to people's recent perception of the homeless. But, these cultural symbols are affected by change and mold to these alterations. This is obvious in the way people see the homeless now in the 1990s compared to the 1980s. In the 1980s, people were more sympathetic to the homeless situation, and they were also more obliged to assist them.
      Everyone in society is affected by symbols. People take the symbols that rule the community and internalize them. How people perceive themselves and others is dictated by symbols. People tend to act according to the way they are taught to view themselves. According to Cooley, when we interact with others we see ourselves as we believe others see us. Then we evaluate how we feel about what they supposedly see and the image of ourselves. Dependent on these factors are our self-esteem. So, when the majority of the population see homeless people as drunks, lazy, ignorant, and other negative characteristics the homeless adopt them as a way of life. They begin believing all of the atrocious things said about them.
      Homelessness as a social problem is only a social problem because  the people define it as such according to the symbolic interactionists. What is a social problem changes over time. Something that is considered a social problem today could change and not be a social problem in a different time period. Problems can differ from being on a more personal level to being an actual social problem that is seen by everyone. This alteration also comes with time. Social Interactionists believe that when trying to study a social problem the way people see the social world in which they live has to be considered. Because the way in which people see the world around them effects what they view as a social problem. If people have no qualms with seeing someone that is homeless on the streets then in their social world homelessness would be a part of every day life.
      An aspect of social interactionism that most closely relates to homelessness is the concept of the labeling theory. Labeling is the theory that society puts certain tags on things and treats them accordingly. Homeless people are labeled in many negative ways which result in the misunderstanding of them. This is a mayor cause of the cycle of poverty. People begin believing that they are worthless and less deserving than others and they totally lose hope. The homeless also teach this to their children who lack the proper education to know any different from what they are taught. If society did not have to have a name or a tag for everything, numerous people would be in improved situations. People do not realize the intense effect their ignorance has on the rest of the world. Labeling is at the heart of the perpetual problem of homelessness.
      When examining the problem of homelessness it is better to examine it from a micro-level point of view. Using the micro-level viewpoint allows the observations to deal more personally with the people being effected by the problem. This is shown by using the symbolic interactionist theory to view homelessness. It allows the people that are homeless to be examined instead of the institutions that cause people to be homeless. The conflict theory is beneficial in that the broad picture of the social problem of having people without homes can be seen. Homelessness is a constant thorn in the sides of all Americans. The-problem will not disappear and cannot be hidden. There must be immense time and effort placed into the situation for it to be adequately solved.


<ICLE-US-PRB-0038.2>
	In today's society, the purpose and effectiveness of the welfare system in Me United States are constantly questioned. With over fourteen million people reliant on welfare in the United States, some change is definitely needed. Conservatives hope to abolish the system completely while liberals insist that welfare reform is the answer. Nevertheless, a crucial question must first be answered: Why does welfare exist?
      Public welfare was first provided to families under the Social Security Act of 1935 as Aid to Dependent Children (ADC) . The target group was children who had become economically dependent because of the deaths of their fathers. The theory behind the act was that the number of families headed by women, who were primarily widows at that time, would remain small and that these mothers should remain at home rather than trying to achieve economic independence in the labor market.
      However, by 1962, welfare rolls had expanded. Children were no longer found to be dependent just because of the deaths of their fathers but also because the fathers had left the family or had never been part of the family unit. The program name was also changed to Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) <R>.
      In 1967, the Work Incentive Program (WIN) was established to provide job training and counseling services. These services recognized that welfare families had special social and psychological difficulties. Child-care efforts were also expanded. Plus, "job developers" were attached to WIN offices to locate appropriate positions for WIN graduates.
      Further reforms occurred in 1971. Under the Talmadge Amendments, WIN offices were required to spend at least one-third of their funds for on-the-job training or public-service employment. The new theory was that placement in these components would improve the chances of participants obtaining regular jobs at the end of their assignments. It was also believed that welfare recipients lacked motivation to enter the work force and needed to be pushed into it <R>.
      Nevertheless, none of the past or present reforms of welfare policy have succeeded in lowering the number of welfare recipients in the United States. Since its beginning, AFDC has undergone a major transformation in its size, cost, and clientele. In other words, more and more people each year claim to be underprivileged, and thus, claim the right to receive welfare.
      The number of AFDC recipients was roughly one million in 1940, two million in 1950, three million in 1960, and nine million in 1970. Since 1935, this program that was designed to resolve the income-maintenance problems of a small distinct group of economically vulnerable families has exploded in to a large and seemingly uncontained program.    
      <*>, a says Ann Clark, a welfare case manager in Colorado Springs, Colorado. <*> <R>.
      In 1993, 14.1 million people in the United States, including nine million children, received welfare through AFDC. One in ten Americans now receives food stamps. The federal government considers a family of four to be in poverty if its total income is $14,800 or less. If that same family earns $27,380, it is considered low-income. These definitions are  used to determine the level of assistance a family receives in various welfare and food programs <R>.
      Thus, with so many Americans receiving welfare, one must wonder, what is wrong with society? Are welfare recipients dependent on the government out of necessity or out of preference? Is it society's responsibility to continue to support these people who seem to contribute so little to society's well-being? If we are willing to help those who are unable to help themselves, should we also be willing to help those who are seen as too lazy to work their way to economic independence?
      Herbert Spencer, a well-known social theorist who was born in 1820 and died in 1903, fully believed that social reform would inhibit social progress. Spencer drew on the work of naturalist Charles Darwin, who found that species of animals were derived by descent from parent forms through the process of natural selection, or survival of the fittest. In Spencer's theory of Social Darwinism, Spencer viewed progress and evolution as inevitable results of human competition and the law of survival of the fittest. Societies develop naturally from simple to more complex ones, with social progress accompanying this evolution. Spencer felt that the duty of sociologists was to discover the laws of human evolution in order to prevent interference with those laws <R>. Thus, to Spencer. if the fittest survived and prospered and the unfit did not, the eventual result would be a much better social system for everyone.
      Spencer's ideas served as justification for laissez-faire capitalism, an economic system untouched by government controls. Thus, today Spencer would most likely support the complete abolishment of the welfare system. He would base this abolition on the basis that the welfare system prevents the natural and inevitable process of social progress. Attempts toward social reform through the welfare system violate certain natural laws of society. 
      To support this rather harsh notion, one must examine certain striking characteristics of welfare recipients. In December 1994, the U.S. General Accounting Office reported that only eleven percent of the 4.6 million parents on AFDC participate monthly in any of the education, training, or job search programs set up by the 1988 Family Support Act <R>. In other words, the majority of welfare parents do not work for their welfare checks.
      Consider the case of Aletha Townsend of Grand Rapids, Michigan, which has one of the most ambitious and successful job search and placement programs in the nation. Aletha is an unwed mother of five children by four deferent men. She dropped out of high school in ninth grade and has been on AFDC since 1976. She has held only one temporary job. She has been enrolled in adult-education courses for ten years but still does not have her general equivalency diploma. In 1992, about to have her last child, she quit school because <*> <R>.    
      Or consider the welfare recipient in Riverside, California, who shuns jobs with early starting times because <*> <R>. Spencer would argue that these people and other welfare recipients who choose not to work prevent society from reaching the level of development and progress that would satisfy the most people. As a result, society literally has to pay for their laziness and unwillingness to work.
      Like Spencer, conservatives do not want to reform welfare; they want to abolish it. They argue that only drastic measures will break the cycle of dependency. One of these drastic measures is the Talent-Faircloth Bill, a proposal introduced by Representative James Talent and Senator Lauch Faircloth. Their plan would deny benefits to unwed mothers under 21 without promising them a job or any other means of support. The savings would go to the states for setting up orphanages and group homes <R>.
      Obviously, one of the central issues of welfare reform is dealing with the growing number of illegitimate births in this country. Nearly one-third of American children are born out of wedlock, and those children are four times as likely as other children to be poor. Unwed mothers average eight years on welfare in contrast to 4.8 years overall. In fact, teenage mothers alone consume $34 billion in benefits each year. 
      Conservatives note that the welfare system treats having a child out of wedlock as a favored life-style that is deliberately subsidized by the government. However, since working women do not get a raise in return for giving birth and have to bear the responsibility and financial burdens themselves, why should unwed mothers unwilling to work receive benefits? As former education secretary Bill Bennett stated, <*> <R>.
      Of course, it does not seem likely that women have children for the sole purpose of receiving welfare benefits, but Bennett's point is well-taken. As long as unwed mothers know that they can depend on the government for financial support, what incentive do they have to stop having illegitimate kids?
      Thus, Spencer would argue that welfare recipients are not fit to survive and therefore should not be helped regardless of their financial situation. If welfare recipients cannot fend for themselves, then perhaps society should allow their extinction, a process that occurs in the animal kingdom whenever certain species lack the traits necessary for survival.
      However, most liberals and supporters of welfare reform, not abolition, disagree with Spencer's theory of Social Darwinism. To them, human beings should not be treated as wild animals. Instead, they see welfare as a necessary component of a society that does not provide equal opportunities to everyone.
      The best explanation for this idea is Robert Merton's Matthew Effect (1968) which is the process whereby advantages in one area can be translated into advantages in another <R>. According to this theory, certain classes in society are successful because of certain opportunities presented to them both in the past and present. Conversely, certain social groups do not succeed because of the absence of certain opportunities or advantages in both the past and present.
      Merton would argue that welfare recipients are not necessarily lazy people who simply want to abuse the system at the expense of others. Instead, they are just unfortunate people who were never presented certain opportunities and who still are not presented certain opportunities because of their past and thus, have to suffer because of these injustices. Therefore, certain people are forced to turn to welfare because of the unfortunate social conditions in which they find themselves.
      Thus, to support Merton's theory, one must find a lack of opportunity in the social lives of welfare recipients. First of all, most recipients have never received a good education. In fact, sixty-eight percent of AFDC recipients who have been on the welfare rolls for more than two years have not graduated from high school. The average adult on welfare has eighth grade reading and math skills. One-third of recipients cannot even read a street map or fill out a social security card application <R>.
      This lack of education translates into fewer jobs that are available to welfare recipients. A survey of 3,200 employers in Atlanta, Boston, Detroit, and Los Angeles by economist Harry Holzer found that only five to ten percent of the low-skilled job openings were available to applicants with few skills or work experience. (Thirty-nine percent of welfare recipients had no work experience in the previous year either.)
      Warrine Pace, a counselor with Project Match, a job program in Chicago, reported that some companies that once hired unskilled welfare mothers now insist that all applicants be over twenty-one and have a high school diploma. As previous data suggests, a majority of welfare recipients cannot meet these qualifications.
      A lack of aptitude is also prevalent among welfare recipients. Most AFDC recipients score too low on intelligence tests to qualify for the armed forces. Nearly half of young AFDC mothers score below the eighteenth percentile for all women <R>.
      Merton would further argue that most welfare recipients never had the advantage of growing up in a family in which a work ethic and  responsibility to the family were emphasized. In fact, many welfare recipients lack basic social skills that are needed to acquire and to keep a  job. Many women who have been on welfare for so many years have so little work experience that social workers must rehearse them with scripts so that they will remember to say "thank you" and "goodbye" at the end of job interviews. A case worker once reported a welfare mother who thought she had to quit work because her child got chicken pox. Another welfare mother thought that she could skip work to pick up a free Thanksgiving dinner <R>.
      Many welfare recipients face other barriers to employment. For example, sixty percent of welfare recipients are abused or neglected as adults. In fact, when female recipients find jobs, their good fortune sometimes precipitates a beating from a boyfriend or spouse who feels threatened.
      Twenty-five to forty percent of welfare recipients have learning disabilities, and sixteen percent have substance abuse problems. Thirty-five percent have physical disabilities or have a disabled person in their household. Moreover, since sixty-seven percent have never married and forty percent have three or more children, many lack the support of a spouse and have difficulty finding affordable childcare <R>.
      A large number of welfare recipients simply never had the advantage of being raised in an environment that promoted self-confidence and high self-esteem. As a result, they often avoid applying for jobs at all because of a fear of rejection.
      Consider, for example. the father of a family that receives welfare. If the father experiences repeated rebuffs in the job market, eventually he will lose self-confidence, and he will feel incapable of not only acquiring a job but also of raising a family. It has been argued that when a father no longer occupies the role of breadwinner in the welfare family, he feels a loss of self-esteem that can lead to marital disruption. As a result, the cycle of welfare dependency continues for the family since the mother usually cannot support the children by herself <R>..
      Thus, Merton would agree with the liberals who believe that welfare reform is the answer in order to provide welfare recipients with certain opportunities and advantages to which all human beings are entitled. Some of these reforms include taking money out of the paychecks and tax refunds of fathers who refuse to make child-support payments. Another proposal is to provide free day care to allow welfare mothers to work or take classes. Some liberals also propose replacing welfare with a system of guaranteed public jobs so that welfare recipients can get back on their feet <R>.
      The Job Club in Riverside, California helps to open a window of opportunities to welfare recipients. Participants in this welfare-to-work program learn how to write a resume, how to fill out job applications, and how to talk to a receptionist. Every other day participants must spend several hours calling at least five employers that are hiring. Counselors provide gas money and bus passes for job interviews, buy uniforms for clients, and arrange and pay for child care <R>.
      Herbert Spencer would note, however, that programs like this one in California have not been extremely successful. This serves to emphasize his point that social reform he no useful place in society. For example, over a three year period, the Project Match welfare-to-work program can turn up jobs for most welfare mothers. However, seventy percent either quit or are fired within one year, and more than half lose their jobs within six months. <*>, says project director Toby Herr, <*> <R>.
      The idea that millions of low-income Americans can readily be moved from the relief rolls to the work rolls is the grand illusion of welfare reform. Rather, the problem can be solved only by providing more training and retraining of low-skilled workers for the kinds of jobs demanded by our advancing technology. However, the job training must be realistic. It must take into account the strengths and weaknesses of the people to be trained. Job training must overcome welfare recipients' lack of skills and lack of self-confidence.
      To accept Spencer's belief that social reform inhibits social progress makes society's future seem bleak and hopeless. This writer refuses to believe that over fourteen million people in the United States of America can, in no way, contribute to improving our society. However, to say that long-term welfare recipients cannot overcome their obstacles is not a valid excuse for the abuses that occur throughout the welfare system. Many Americans without high school diplomas work every day, and immigrants who speak no English often do, too -without the support of welfare. Seriously disabled individuals hold full-time jobs, and many employees drink too much or abuse drugs.
      What is perhaps the saddest aspect of the welfare dilemma is the large number of children that are affected. In the United States, almost one child in four grows up in poverty. This is double the child-poverty rate of any other industrialized country <R>. Thus, while it is easy for society to point its finger at welfare parents who do not work for their benefits, society must also remember the children who have no say in the matter.
      No, of course it is not fair that millions of people in this country do not have the same advantages as the middle and upper classes. However, it is also not fair that some welfare recipients candidly admit that they could work more if they really wanted to work more. Unfortunately, complete equality will never exist in our society, but hopefully certain reforms can be made so that welfare recipients will have greater opportunities to succeed.


<ICLE-US-PRB-0039.2>
	Divorce has become a growing problem in the second half of the twentieth century. The divorce rate nearly doubled between 1965 and 1975; however, the rate of increase began to slow down in the late seventies <R>. Many conclude that the divorce rate has stabilized for the time and may fall even further. Even though the divorce rate appears to have stabilized, the fact is that over the last fifteen to twenty years the divorce rate has been higher than it  has ever been in our society.
      General trends in the divorce rate occur in race and age groups. African Americans and younger people continue to have higher rates of divorce than the rates of whites and older people, although all the rates have recently fallen. 
      The projection for the near future is that two-thirds of all first marriages will end in divorce <R>. Children are the innocent victims in many of these divorces. It is predicted that one out of every three white children and two out of every three African American children born to a marriage will experience the breakup of their parents' marriage by the time they reach age sixteen <R>.
      If divorce is widespread, it is a sign that we are having a problem with the actual structure of marriage. This leads us to say that widespread personal troubles indicate a social problem. Several different theories can be used to analyze why divorce exists and why the divorce rate has increased.
      One theory used to help understand divorce is symbolic interactionism. These theorists stress how changing expectations affect people's behavior. In the early 1930's, sociologist William F. Ogburn recognized that personality was becoming an important characteristic in a mate <R>. Also, sociologists Ernest W. Burgess and Harvey J. Locke noted in 1945 that family solidarity was increasingly coning to depend on mutual affection, sympathetic understanding, and temperamental compatibility <R>. Society has become impersonal and complex, so people want their marriage to satisfy their needs for intimacy.
      Expectations for marriage have become high. We have the unrealistic idea that love is the symbol of total happiness. If there is "true love," then all our needs will be satisfied. People enter marriage with unrealistic expectations of love, then when dissatisfactions enter spouses tend to blame one another. The symbol of love blinds them to the reality of marriage.
      The roles of children and parents have changed. In the medieval society children were seen as little adults. They are now seen as impressionable and innocent beings. Parents are now expected to provide protection, nurturance, and opportunities. This places greater demands on the parents in providing for their children. All of this puts an even greater load on the family ties.
      Another change that has taken place is changing sex roles. This has created difficulties in the marriage. One partner cannot take for granted of what to expect from the other. Traditional sex roles were clear-cut guidelines for behavior. Now, couples must figure out their own roles. This can be another source of dissatisfaction in the marriage. All of these changes in people's symbols have put excessive pressure on husband and wives <R>.
      Another significant change is women working outside the home. Women now realize that they can survive on their own. With then own job, they do not need a husband for economic support. Symbolic interactionists consider the perception of alternatives as an essential first step to divorce <R>.
      The meaning of divorce has changed. it was once a symbol of something negative. The meaning is now more a symbol of being free. Divorce does not hold the social stigma it once did. The law, a very powerful symbol, now offers a "no-fault" divorce. In this type of divorce, no one person takes the blame.
      To explain divorce, symbolic interactionists emphasize the fundamental change in the symbols associated with the family <R>. These symbols influence people's behavior and ideas.
      Another view from which to look is the functionalist view. They look at how change in one part of the social system affects the other pasts of the social system <R>.
      Historical events, such as industrialization and urbanization, have changed the traditional functions of the family. Before industrialization the family was a team that worked together for economic means. Production was moved to the factory, so it weakened the family ties making its members less dependent on one another. Also, the government began to take the job of socializing children by requiring attendance to public schools.    
      In the 1800's there were many functions of the family that have now been turned over to those outside the family. This is yet another point that shows how the family has lost many of its traditional functions. From a functionalist perspective, such changes have weakened the family unit <R>. The family has less ties to bind them together, making divorce a stronger possibility.
      To gain understanding of marriage, the family, and the problems relating to them, conflict theorists emphasize the inequality of men and women in relationships. <R>. They also point out that marriage reflects the society in which it exists. Marriage is a way men maintain their control, domination, and exploitation of women, so if women are subordinated in society, marriage will reflect this subordination <R>.
      In the family, husbands and wives struggle over rights, obligations, and privileges. With women working outside the home, competition breaks into conflict between the partners. Conflict theorists stress that divorce results from basic, inequitable relationships <R>.
      Sociologists Spanier and Thompson did a study about marital conflict. They found that the following economic issues were points of conflict: amount of money one had, individual's or spouse's working hours, time away from home because of a fob, or spouse's work colleagues <R>.
      Many divorces have outside influences. In many cases, a divorce is started because of third-party involvement. In-laws can be a negative influence, especially if they disapprove of the marriage. Other causes include alcoholism, substance abuse, family violence, and less often, homosexuality. Counselors suggest that common problems - with money, sex, and in-laws, for example - are really arenas for acting out deeper conflicts.
      Another theory useful to discuss divorce is the exchange theory. A spouse must weigh his or her options. If they get divorced, what are the possibilities for remarriage, or will they live a satisfying single life. Also, there are barriers against divorce. People have religious beliefs, parental pressure to stay married, common friends, economic investments, and children to consider.
      A marriage can provide emotional support, sexual gratification, companionship, and economic benefits. An unhappy marriage does not provide all of these benefits, so there is not an equal exchange. A person must decided if getting a divorce is worth it. He or she must weigh the consequences of staying with his or her partner or divorcing the partner. As a couple moves forward divorce, they balance all of the anticipated moral, social, economic, and familial consequences against their satisfactions securities, and unhappiness <R>.
      Thus far the main focus has been the actual divorce, not what happens afterwards. In cases where there are children, there seem to be more problems after the divorce. Children many times become the innocent victims of their parents' marriage. There is continuing conflict and other problems. This can be very difficult for the children involved, and also for the parents. 
      Visitation can be an arena in which the ex-spouses continue the conflicts they experienced before the divorce <R>. Parents get upset when the child is not ready on time, or when the child is brought home late. The real problem lies deeper than this. The parents are expressing the conflict that happened before the divorce. 
Child custody can be an extension of exchange. In many cases the father has legal responsibility for financial support, while the mother continues to have the physical day-to-day care of the children. The father gives money, and in exchange the mother cares for the children. 
      We have seen, through several different theories, how the changes in the family have caused the divorce rate to rise. We have also looked briefly at the continuing problems after divorce when children are involved. Society wilt always have problems, but with education we can hopefully cut down the number of those involved in these problems.
      The next step is to consider what can be done to lower the number of people involved in divorces. 
      From the viewpoint of symbolic interactionism, we need to look at the symbols involved in marriage and what they mean. People need to realize that love does not mean total happiness. Couples entering a marriage do need to have love, but they also need to realize the limit of love. With me changing sex roles, each partner needs to know what the other expects from him or her. Knowing more about the expectations in marriage may help more couples stay together in a happy marriage.
      Now that the law does not make obtaining a divorce so difficult, more people see divorce as okay. Many of the stigmas attached to divorce are gone. People should not stay in an unhappy marriage; however, people should not get a divorce just because it is easier then working through problems. The symbols associated with me family have changed. These changes need to be taken into account before people are married.
      Historical events have changed the traditional functions of the family. We cannot change what has happened in history, but we can counteract it with trying to strengthen the family unit. Family members are no longer so dependent on one another. They can go elsewhere for their needs. Piety needs to make the family unit more a part of the individual's functioning needs. If there is a strong family unit, then divorce is less of a possibility.
      As long as there is conflict in society, there will be conflict in marriages. Couples need to have a secure relationship to overcome conflict. Husbands and wives need to have clear definitions of their rights, obligations, and privileges. This way there will be less conflict between the two partners.  
      In a happy marriage, there is an exchange of emotional support, sexual gratification, companionship, and economic benefits. Couples need to try to have an equal partnership in order to have a better marriage. If there is an equal marriage, then one of the partners will not feel like he or she must get out of the marriage to be involved in an equal exchange.
      Through different theoretical perspectives, we have analyzed divorce. We have seen how it has involved through history and is now is very high. We have also looked at why divorce exists. Also, we have seen how the problems of a marriage continue even after the divorce is final. There was also a glimpse at how we may possible lower the number of divorces. Hopefully, as knowledge is obtained in how to have a better marriage, the divorce rate will be lowered.  It is interesting to see how different theories explain divorce and its consequences. The problem of divorce will never be gone, but hopefully in the future there will stronger marriages and less divorce.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0001.1>

The modern microcomputer (PC) has evolved at an incredibly fast pace: from the very first modern computer in the 1940's to the computers of today, there have been many technological advances and also there has been a tremendous impact on society. The computer has eliminated many jobs through automation of factories;  accounting, engineering, and other scientific programs, etc.  The effects of the computer have been tremendous; however, the phenomenon is a catch-22.  The computer has made life easier from a physical standpoint and harder from a mental standpoint.


The physical effects of the computer are numerous and easily seen. In offices, the computer is everywhere. From word processors to spreadsheet/database programs, computers have made office work easier and faster.  Automation of factories has also eliminated many manual jobs. Also almost everyone has at least one simple computer, e.g. a calculator. There are of course many other things computers are used for, but a lengthy list is not necessary as everyone already knows (except for people in 2nd & 3rd world countries) how abundant computers are.


The mental effect of computers is two-fold. Firstly, computers have made mathematical computations so easy to do, many people do not fully understand how or why their computer works. This has created a surplus of "needless" computations, figures, etc. People can easily do calculus or other type functions with a computer.  What many people do not realize is that computers make errors all the time.  Granted, it is the person who "told" the computer what to do that truly made the error; however if that person knew what he should do, or better stated "was able to do with a computer", he would not have erroneous answers. Mathematical models, theories, etc. are absolutely riddled with errors simply because there are many things people don't know or can't predict.  Due to this errors frequently exist in the world of computers simply because humans are ignorant- for whatever reason - of many "variables".

Secondly, computers have sometimes become more reliable than people.  A computer's circuits don't get tired and, if programmed 100% correctly (another perhaps impossible computation), never make errors.  This supposed reliability has left many workers out of work.  The effects of this are unpredictable.  Anger, frustration, fear, and many other negative feelings have sprung up simultaneously with the rise of computer usage.

Clearly, there is evidence of good and bad results from the advent of the modern computer. It would be practically impossible to throw the computer away or never use it again.  Yet there are practical solutions.  Better mathematical education is needed for everyone who uses a computer other than a simple calculator.  Also, curtailing some theoretical programming could eliminate alarming predictions or erroneous results. The key is probably in the classroom. People should learn more about the ramifications about what they are doing.  (This probably would require understanding of philosophy & psychology as well as mathematics & science.)  In either case, if computers are good or bad, it would be difficult to dispute their impact on people's lives.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0002.1>

One of the most persuasive discoveries of the twenthieth century has been that of the computer.  From personal computers to the internet working of large corporations the computer affects every aspect of our lives.  Today, having knowledge of how the computer operates is considered a necessary component of leading a succesful life.

A vivid illustration of this can be found by examining the work.  Recently, an auto-pasts company put all of their inventory on computer.  The manager, who had been with the company for 15 years, did not know how to type.  He could not stock or access the inventory fast enough and was laid off because he was viewed as a defecit by the company. The manager had an opportunity to take a computer class, but chose not to, not knowing his company would switch to a computer inventory.  His inadvertent refusal to learn about computers cost him his job.


The banking field is another area computers have come to dominate. Millions of dollars transfer from one bank to another. Because of this hacking has become quite a problem.  People also need to be more aware of their accounting statements and check carefully each month to see no errors have been made.


Finally, people need to continue to keep abreast of new developments and uses for computers as they will continue to become a larger part of our society.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0003.1>

	I feel the invention of the computer has significantly changed people's lives. This, realistically, has been quite a new invention, and in its short life span has been able to change the world significantly.  Not to mention how it will change people's life styles in the future. These changes resulting from the invention of the computer, have been, I feel both bad and good.
	Technologically, computers have improved people's lives drastically. No longer are the times when people must write a paper manually, or even with a simple typewriter. Personal computers are becoming quite common, and therefore less expensive and easier to own. Computers have also made live transpire much quicker than before. Gone are the days when a person who wanted money from a bank had to wait until it was open.  We now have ATM, automatic teller machines that are able to proceed with the same transactions as a teller would do.  It seems these days EVERYTHING is run by computers!  We are able to complete our tasks much better and much more efficiently.  Basically every facet of life has been affected by computers bringing about positive results.
	While computers have brought about improvements, in my opinion, they also have "impersonalized" the world.  Jobs are being taken away from humans who are not "fast enough".  Interraction with humans in some places is extinct.  Yes, it might be more efficient to have a computer make your transaction at a bank, but I miss the human interraction between people. In addition, it is also very dangerous to place all of one's trust in a  machine. It is a common fact machines do fail!  Sure, a car with a computer that tells the driver when an on-coming obstical is approaching is safe, but what happens when the driver relies too much on the computer and not enough on their own brain?   People soon stop thinking, and allow machines to do the work for them. I feel afraid when our society relies so heavily on a bunch of wires. Computers are not able to express and truly feel emotions, and therefore are incapable, in some instances to function.  With the invention of the computer comes many changes from the lifestyle of the past to changes in the lifestyle for the future.  Some of these changes will save people's lives, such as advances in medical technology, safety, etc.  But I fear that our world will become a very impersonal place. I hope that we will be able to determine what improvements should be made and what should just remain "slow".

<ICLE-US-MICH-0004.1>

	During the 20th century there have been several world wide discoveries that have significantly influenced peoples lives.  I think that the most significant discovery or invention will depend on the individual.  Every individual holds a different perspective of life and what they consider to be valuable and important. I chose cultural awareness and understanding prejudice & discrimination as my topic, because I greatly value all of humanity and I believe that all people should learn to live in peace.
	Cultural and racial equality is a new term that as a society we are striving for.  People have come to realize that racism is almost inherent in today's society.  As individuals we are constantly surrounded by racist and discriminitive media language and advertising. In the past this type of discrimination, which includes more then blacks African Americans, but also other ethnicities and women, has been excepted as a way of life. Few individuals have been courageous enought to challenge the deeply breed sterotypes, and inequality, and demand freedom and equality.  Numerous hidden talents, strong wise personal voices and the great knowledge and learning that results from human experience and suffering has been burried under the ignorance of our society.  However, today we are beginning to move in a new direction.  People are understanding that prejudice and discrimination are not consciously learned but they must be unlearned. Together as a society, and as a much larger world we are recognizing the value in learning from difference. Cultural differences are no longer being ignored or concealed but rather they are being celebrated. Organizations and forms are presently being held to discover new ways of dealing with discrimination and racism.
	The opportunity to learn about the vast world around us is opening up, the avalibility to study cultural difference and reflect the knowledge on ourselves is improving. Unlearning prejudice may not seem like a traditional discovery but it is very significant to the development and peaceful existance of all humanity. As human beings we need each other and we need to be willing to accept those who are different.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0005.1>

	A current ideology in the United States today is for one to be successful, one must follow all of the written & unwritten rules of society,
everyone has an equal opportunity to succeed and when one does not do this one fails.  One can see these ideas in popular media everyday.  T.V. comercials & T.V. programs project models of how one should be. In the 20th cen, the values of/that  the United States was founded on have changed in meaning and  sense when applied to modern day America, nothing was ever equal.
	And today, since the invention and utilization of modern technologies such as computers life for americans moves at a much faster pace.  People are more mobile, can work more, and buy more things, but time for relaxation and family are often substitued with T.V.  In America, this growing individualistic society, one nolonger sees the realitive humanness between people,  instead one sees the differences, the unlucky, the unsuccessfull,  and attribute thier inadequacy to achieve to a lack of effort.  With everyone moving at such a fast pace, the gaps are easy to miss, the voices of the mass media easily replace those voices that struggle to be heard. The parts of the new machine that need oiled and regulated.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0006.1>

	 The development and implementation of technology has affected societies in every corner of the world. I do not speak of a certain object in particular, but of technology as a whole. This thing, technology has been and will always be both the closest friend and yet the greatest Nemesis of our world.
	Science and technology have allowed me to travel to this part of the world, they have provided a living for my family, they have cured my grandmother of cancer, and they provide horizons of hope and knowledge in the fields of medicine, science, engineering, and even the less overt corners of our lives. The use of the means humans have developed is wherein the greatest problems lie. Alone, they do not threaten us, but when they become welded with certain aspects of and certain people in our societies, they become potentially the most dangerous things that we hold in our hands.
	Speaking from my experience living in the United States, I have come to feel that technology has become a large detriment to our youth in particular. People say that technological development has made our world much smaller,
and I would concur that a great majority of Americans live in their own personal closets.  In schools, Geography classes rarely, if ever, exist. Before I came to Spain, a group of children asked me if Spain was in Michigan.
Explaining that Spain was located across the ocean did not seem to improve their understanding of the layout of our world.
	Science and technology have had effects on the U.S. that cannot be described, and I feel that its people have adopted the same "I am a self-sufficient- I don't need any help" type of mentality that will slowly destroy us.  Our awareness of other people, other cultures, and other languages is very low on the priority list of our educators. Until I was 15, I was unable to study any foreign language at all, and even at that time I had only one choice of languages- German. Since I was twelve, I had an intense desire to learn Spanish, and because of these circumstances, that I mentioned before, I had no choice but to wait until I was twenty years old to even begin to learn this language.  Mine is not the only experience like this. The effort of the United States has caused our minds to be heard, and a world that is growing while my country lags behind in its selfish self-satisfaction.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0007.1>

	How could people live without the invention of the computer? Computers have become a part of everyday life for many people. Computers can be found everywhere from schools to huge businesses.  People often rely greatly on computers.  Computers have significantly changed people's lives.
	For many people computers have become a part of their everyday life. 
In people's homes calculators as usually found and often even personal computers can be found in a private home. At the office, in school, or while shopping one will find many computers being used. People use computers in many different settings because they are so useful and speed-up many laboreous tasks.
	Computers are relied on greatly for help with things such as filing, finding information, and solving equations.  Computers speed-up tasks that used to take up a lot of time. Schools use computers to teach children because it is fun and exciting. Businesses use computers because they can be more productive by doing things quickly and getting more work done. Computers make things more efficient and often do things faster than humans. People have come to rely on computers because of these reasons.
	People's lives have changed significantly since the invention of the calculator (the first computer). Many tasks have been made easier and are done more efficiently.  Many people find knowledge of computer skills very helpful when looking for a job.  People have come to depend on the function of a computer to help everyday life run smoothly. 
	Computers are indeed one of the greatest inventions of the 20th century. People have made computers part of everyday life.  Computers do many useful and wonderful things, but people have often experienced the drawbacks of such a wonderful invention. When computers break down people are thrown back to the old way of life before computers. This is when it becomes evident that people are very dependent on computers when computers do break down.  Many  people will ask, "How did people live without the invention of the computer?

<ICLE-US-MICH-0008.1>

. Humanity witnessed one of histories [recorded history] most incredible minds at work when Albert Einstien came onto the scene.  Although his theory [his and his wife's] was basically scientific in nature, it can and has been applied to all areas of human existence.  The theory I'm speaking of is relativity. With this theory also came the area of quantum mechanics. It is difficult to condense this topic, a topic which has volumes, volumes a literature.
	Personally, I find that relativity hasn't had its full impact. This is probably for several reasons: First, the notion that every point is a point of departure and that all other points are in reference to that point of departure is rather abstract. It seems impossible and it leaves humans grasping for closure.  What Einstien did to humanity's philosophy was change the notion that closure could be obtained. The socratic idea that all was known.  And that it was only a matter of time before a "moment" would reveal the knowledge from "within" was in effect shattered. The philosopher's stone was pulverized into utopic and nostolgic dust.
	Since it is my socialization that leads me to have a notion of earthtime [24 hours = day] I think Einstien reconstructed part of it.  Although I don't claim to understand relativity, I've attempted to indwell the topic [like sidphantha and his rock].  The point is my notion of time has changed; And I think once humanity realizes that time-notions are human constructions and are subject to change, that then the impact of Einstien's idea will be felt.  For now we are left with a world that has used Einstien's "invention" for intentions not worthy of the genius; namely: atomic bombs.
	The significance of atomic bombs cannot be underestimated when speaking about humanity in the 20th century.  It set-up a whole network of global systems. USA-USSR; with Japan and Germany as the "winners". Cold wars; north-south relations. Many things have been generated: namely fear!  Relatively speaking, fear has been the main point of departure for the global community construction. This is a point that I think needs to be changed, from fear to peace.  A shift in focus if you will.  Some would say this is too utopic;
 But if humanity sought to understand relativity (as does Stephen Hawkings) our notions would be radically changed.  For now, we must deal with the short comings of humanity's use of Einstien's ideas: atomic weapons.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0009.1>

	In my home town of Kalamazoo, the invention of the shopping mall has changed the lives of the people in our town and the town itself.  While many people enjoy and utilize the shopping malls, I believe that they are more of a detriment than a blessing.
	Kalamazoo, like most American cities, began surrounding the central means of transportation.  Cities were first located near water, then near train tracks,  and then began to locate themselves farther away due to the inventions of trucks and cars. Downtown Kalamazoo was once a thriving and successful district.  Near the train station were the larger industries, and other essential specialized stores for everyday supplies. Homes and neighborhoods were located outside of the central city;  however, many stores had several floors of apartments above them to accommodate families to live in.
Everyone was near the central city -  so everyone could use the central city.
Rich and poor alike had easy access to the offerings of the central city.  Throughout history, the trend is for the rich to get richer and the poor remain poor. While the rich got richer, they began building specialized shops and strip malls outside of the city limits. And, the more wealthy moved from the inner city (with help from the invention of the automobile) to the suburbs where the could keep a distance from the busy inner city.  While the more wealthy began moving away from the inner city, the poor and lower working class remained due to lack of transportation or money to move outwards. This process has left the businesses in the inner cities, including Kalamazoo, without a stable clientel. Why should we, say those with cars, go downtown where the more poorer people are and have to shop outside going from specialized store to store, when I can go to a nice indoor mall that has everything?  Businesses that could move out of the downtown district did, and still do, and relocate in strip malls near the main malls or in the malls themselves.  I believe it is only the storeowners who realize this process is occurring or enjoy the downtown district remain and stay in business.  Many larger factories and office building still remain downtown.  And, the executives and business people rely on commuting to and from the city daily without taking advantage of what was once, a thriving neighborhood.
and still could be! 
	One feature that does attract business is colleges.  Kalamazoo has 1 large university, 1 private college and two "community-2 yr." colleges.  The large & private universities are within walking distance of downtown Kalamazoo,  so many business try to cater to our tastes- clubs, cafés and other stores.  Another attempt to reinstate success is downtown festivals. We have many, and they always attract those from the suburbs. 
	This disintegration of the inner city is detrimental to the people it affects: the poor and lower middle class.  There neighborhoods don't get financial support  and money is not spent in the stores near them.  If they could have more money and leave, the majority would. Shopping malls, strip malls, and the flu from the inner cities by upperclass Americans will only hurt those who can't escape in the end - in fact, it already is hurting business and lives in the downtown districts. 
	

<ICLE-US-MICH-0010.1>

	Within this century there have been many technological advances which have resulted in a drastically different society than that of a hundred years ago. Clearly, of the inventions of this century, the one that has made the most impact on world views and lifestyle is the television.  This instrument has brought other worlds right into the living room, making it possible to see life in other countries in a way that was never before possible.  However, the invention of television also gave society an easy way to waste time;  one has only to turn it on to tune out reality.
	Television has potential to offer wonderful things to its viewers, such as educational programming for children, cultural programs about far away places, and a closer look at current events than cannot be given by newspaper. Television has the power to bring war into the home as well as artistic expressions of those involved in the program production, giving society the opportunity to understand their own culture more fully. However, this is not the way in which television has influenced society. On the contrary, television has become the escape route of the masses, a way for people to flee from the conflicts they experience in their culture, rather than confront them and try to understand them. 
	In the minds of most Americans, television is regarded as a diversion rather than an educational tool, as free entertainment instead of easily accessible knowledge. Millions of Americans can be found to be staring at the T.V. at any one time, watching sit-coms, soap-operas, and cartoons. The T.V. has become the center of many households; in many families, the only time that everyone is together is when they are watching television.  T.V. is a major cause of lack of togetherness found in many American families,  and has also resulted in an increase in laziness. The more time one spends watching TV, the less motivated he becomes; there is no need to seek worthwhile activities when it is much easier to sit on the couch, pick up the remote control, and stare at a box.
	Television, therefore, has changed society in ways that could hardly have been dreamed of 00 years ago.  It has given society another creative vein, a look at worlds which could be seen in no other way, and an opportunity to better educate itself.  However, throughout the years, television has lost much of its integrety; the programs offered are usually cheap entertainment rather than education.  The entertainment aspect of television has offered society an easy escape from its problems and dificulties.  Therefore, since the invention of television, society has becomed more informed but too lazy to think about this new information,  and has distanced itself from family life.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0011.1>

	For centuries before, millions of people were left dead, or permanently mamed because of disease. Unfortunately this still occurs, but with increasing medical & technological advances starting at the middle of the century many people have been rescued from the torment of disease.  Perhaps the greatest invention and discovery is the polio vaccine, invented by Salk, which changed the future, and future's children. The effects of such a vaccine are countless and inequivalent to any other invention of the 20th century. Why was it so great?  It changed the population  and acted as a foundation for further medical advances.
	 For 20 year olds polio has never never been an issue, it is one of the many vaccines we received as a child and for us the new dreaded ailment is AIDS, which we have no cure for - for some of our parents, and grandparents this was what they feared. The vaccine was utilized for the first time in the middle of the century for our parents and the decade after that - The Baby Boom.  With this new vaccination less children were dying, or being mamed, and had a greater chance of having a healthy childhood.  For sure there was an effect on the population as a whole and whether it had anything to do with the Baby Boom is for each individual to decide. The vaccination did not CAUSE the "boom"  but  since there is a larger surviving group born during than time, the contribution could have been one of life span. I'm sure in the past there were "booms" especially after wartime, but the population of children at that time would gradually level off due to disease.  Usually disease plays a role of population control.  Every few years a new one comes along to normalize an overpopulated world.  The polio vaccine stopped death in its path. 
	The process of vaccination also opened new doors. Things weren't impossible any more,  and no matter how strange it seemed; injecting the dead virus to protect you from the virus itself would prevent the onset of the disease. Thanks to Dr. Salk we are a little bit more protected than we would have been before, living in a world of uncertainty. 

<ICLE-US-MICH-0012.1>

	The invention of the airplane, in my opinion, has drastically changed the lives of many people.  Air transportation allows people to travel from place to place more quickly & efficeintly & overseas travel has been drastically effected.  Without the airplane my trip from the U.S. to Spain would've taken an extraordinary amount of time, maybe a week.  The invention of the airplane has also affected areas other than solely (vacation) travel, business, entertainment, & intercontinental relations (politics) have also felt the impact of the airplane.
	 As I've already said the area of travel has been greatly improved due to the airplane. Travel times have been significantly shorten;  for example, to drive from Michigan to California takes about 30-35 hours, but to fly the same distance takes about 3 hours. This allows people a greater variety of places to travel, and they can spend their vacation time at their choosen destination, not trying to get there.
	The business world has definitely flourished due to the airplane.  As a result of the greatly decreased travel times, countries can work together much easier than previously possibly.  Also, business relations within a country have improved. Today, it is relatively easy for an American businessperson to have business relations in any part of the world. I have seen this in the increase in International Business during the past few decades.
	Entertainment, a very large field, has grown with the invention of the airplane.  Now, entertainers, whether they be musicans, actors, or athletes, can travel from place to place much more quickly. For example, Michael Jackson just gave a concert in Madrid, this was made much easier because of the airplane. Professional athletic teams reduce travel time, and are able to play more games in many different places because travel is so easy.
	The last area I'm going to touch on is intercontinental relations. This area has been positively and negatively effected.  Positive aspects are those such as "Peace Talks" between nations; these would not take place as often as the do, if it took the President 1 week to get to where they were going.  Also heads of state can more easily interact with each other (in their perspective countries) with the use of air transportation.  There are negative aspects, too.  Unfortunately, wars have used airplanes.  Japan bombing Pearl Habor, for example, and the U.S. dropping atomic bombs on Japan. The invention of the airplane has had many positive effects-, unfortunately, however, it was brought about some negative changes, also.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0013.1>

	A discovery that has significantly changed many peoples lives and their ways of thinking is the epidemic, known as  AIDS.  Though it has probably been around for awhile, it's presence hasn't really been known untill fairly recently, and it's consequences have been devistating.
	AIDS has definately had an impact on people in the United States and probably all over the world because it always leads to death and there is no cure.  It has caused a lot of prejudice and paranoia among people which has torn them apart.  For example, there is more of stigma attached to being a homosexual male, not only because of their sexual preference, but they probably have AIDS too.  This kind of ignorant thinking is breaking us apart.
 Also, when Ryan White, a boy who contracted AIDS through a blood transfusion was diagnosed, the people of his town and his school treated him like a complete outcast and wouldn't allow him to attend school.  With new discoveries of AIDS, paranoia is at an all time high.
	Doctors are discovering that some undetectable strands of AIDS do exist.   This has really scared people because they may have AIDS and not even know it. I feel this has really made people think about their actions.  In the  early eighties "casual sex" in the United States was a widely accepted idea, now it is something people really take into consideration and rarely occurs.
 Relationships seemed to be valued more than one night stands.  People are starting to realize that they really do have to be careful, and with more education on this disease, I'm sure more changes will come about.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0014.1>

	The twentieth century has seen more wars than any other previous bloc of time.  Though advances in communication, transportation, and information sharing, the world as a body of people living in close proximity, has rapidly shrunk.  In the second of the world wars, the race was on to create the most devastating, most powerful, and most frightening weapon our people had ever known.  In my opinion, the discovery and harness of atom and its energy and the corresponding invention of nuclear weapons have been the most significant factors of change in our lifetime, if not, perhaps, in several lifetimes.
	As missile technology and nuclear fusion capacities increased and improved, fear began to replace nationalism, and our small world erected barriers between its members.  From my experience as an American, I can remember associating communism with nuclear threat, Soviet citizens with anti-Christ, and bomb shelters, secret cities for underground, and weapons orbiting our planet, with daily, normal life.  Perhaps this increasingly common mentality is the worst effect of our nuclear, cold war age.  In a planet which desperately needs our focus on environmental and humanitarian issues, my country has spent uncountable trillions of dollars on nuclear weapons testing, improvement, and implementation.  As a commonplace goal and testimonial landmark to 9 presidential administrations, the cold war has manifested its awesome power and control over nearly every facet of Americana; from survival kits and basement bombshelters to an ever circulating cheif Executive commandpost from the air.
	In just the past three years our family of nations has seen the dismantling of the Berlin Wall and hundreds of other smaller symbols of freedom, and an end to oppression in many circumstances.  With this, the walls, barbed wire, and mental barriers are falling, bringing more change than our planet has seen since its genesis.  Although the old habits die hard, they are indeed dying.  In America the military has been reduced by several thousand troops, and the production of nuclear warheads has virtually arrived a standstill.  Hopefully, with continued efforts, our use of nuclear fusion and fission will turn from mediums of strategy, destruction, and waste to matters of energy production, medicine, and other humanitarian goals.  With this thawing of attitudes, our frigid planet and cold neighbors may once again be a warm and friendly people.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0015.1>

	The discovery of penicillin as an antibiotic was one of the greatest advances in medicinal chemistry.  As a natural antibiotic, penicillin was discovered to have many uses in stopping and preventing the spread of infections.  This "wonder-drug" also led to the discovery of a variety of other naturally-occurring antibiotics that could also be cultured "in vitro" in a laboratory.  This sudden burst of useful compounds not only improved the chances of a patient's survival in a hospital but also caused a great need for medical chemists to study and classify each new drug as it was discovered.
	As discoveries of new antibiotics decreased, chemists began to wonder if certain variations of these drugs could be synthesized and also used as medicine.  It was also attemped to increase the production of the naturally-occurring antibiotics through synthesis.  Both of these new attempts caused a need for more research, more companies, and more medical chemists, and the industry increased tremendously.  It was discovered that the older drugs could be synthesized efficiently while still remaining biologically active.  New drugs were also synthesized; some were found to be medically useful while others were not.  A variety of new drugs continuously appeared on the market and changed the way people thought about taking medicine.  It was now much easier to obtain antibiotics for simple illnesses, such as the common cold.  Huge enterprises, such as Upjohn, were formed and grew, and universities had research teams devoted to producing efficient synthesis routes for the production of all kinds of antibiotics.
	The discovery of one compound led to the increase of health of millions of people, to the discovery of more and more antibiotics, and to a booming industry comprised of research teams and large companies. The synthesis of antibiotics and research of their uses still continues today as thousands of universities and companies around the world continue the work of a small bacteria -- the producer of penicillin.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0016.1>

	Of course their have been numerous inventions and discoveries of the 20 century that have significantly impacted the lives of people everywhere;  however, I would like to discuss the invention of the television.  Since the middle of the century the television has come in to our homes and changed our way of live.  This invention not only introduced a new form of entertainment, it has enhanced communication and has altered family life and values.  Having a television in the living room allows for instant entertainment any time of the day or night.  Before people could only listen to the radio in their homes
 and they needed to go out to the theater in order to enjoy visual forms of entertainment. As television programing improves their is an increasing number
of programs to choose from with a push of a button.  There is much controversy about whether this new form of indoor entertainment is beneficial or not.  Many believe that the problem with television is people become yonkies (with eyes glued to the set).  They prefer to sit in front of the television instead of reading, exercising, or going to a museum.  Culturally speaking, it appears that T.V. has some detrimental aspects. 
	Besides entertaining people, television has become a major source for fast & accurate communicating.  With this invention people can be informed about everything from the weather conditions in their own town to the economic situation of a city half way around the world.  The T.V. not only allows one to hear the news, it can be seen as well.  This mode of communicating has been helpful in warning people of dangers, both natural and social, and increasing awareness about what is happening around the world.  Lastly, I would like to discuss how all this has affected the family.  It is obvious that T.V. has changed communicating within the family.  For instance, some argue it is a way to bring the family together.  Everybody comes together at night to watch a favorite program.  However, others say the T.V. disrupts the "family dinner"
 and and diminished communication among family members because they would rather watch T.V. than talk with one another.  The types of programs is another issue.  Many agree that T.V. is too violent or lacking in family morals.  The children grow up watching violence and sex and the become desensitized to it.  This creates problems with values which in turn, creates problems in society.
	Obviously, the invention of the television has impacted people in many ways.  It has created news forms of entertainment & communication.  On a deeper level it has also impacted values within the family.  There is a tremendous amount of controversy over the beneficial and detrimental aspects of the television and it is anyone's guess if it will ever be resolved.  One thing is certain and that is the television is the invention of the 20 century!

<ICLE-US-MICH-0017.1>

	For as long as man has been alive, he has invented things.  Important early discoveries included the wheel and fire.  In the long line of such discoveries, modern man has continously found new ways to make his life easier.  So, naturally, when man invented the washing machine, millions and millions of lives were made simpler.
	The washing machine, in those houses that own them, has almost become a necesity. Should there be a fire in the house, many people might be seen furiously running about in the streets, clutching the machine tightly to their chests.  In today's society, to be with out a washing machine, or any other electric gadget, seems to be devastating.  What ever would a college student do with out a washing machine?  Where would we find the time to hand wash our clothes?
	The mere thought of washing clothes by hand causes panic in most teenagers, students, & adults alike.  This modern invention, the washing machine, has put fear of handclothes washing in the hearts of many.  Give an average adult a washing board and soap &  tell him/her to do a load of laundry, and watch the panicked look on his/her face.
	Thus, it is easy to see that while washing machines, microwaves, toaster ovens, & millions of other gadgets facilitate our modern lives, they also aid us in our modern process of rushing around.  These "wonders" make it easier to spend less time doing manual labor.  But is that all that bad?....   Many housewives would insist on its benefits, and I would have to agree.  But the washing machine is just another invention in a long line of inventions that make our lives easier yet don't allow us to exercise, to use our muscles.  It is no small wonder that in today's "modern" society, as we continously use our "modern gadgets", we are increasingly needing diet programs & other such systems.  Yes, the old days were hard, but was weight watchers ever an issue?

<ICLE-US-MICH-0018.1>

	It is funny that we are writing on this subject because it was a topic of discussion in my home (in the U.S.) the other night.  My father suggested the zip-lock bag, and I'm going to have to agree that that is an invention that I cannot live without!
	First of all, zip-lock bags are great for keeping things fresh.  Sandwiches, crackers, cookies, cereal, etc. do not get stale as quickly when they are stored in these bags (without any air).  Food also stays fresh in the freezer.  Anything can be put in zip-lock bag, and not get freezer burn.
	Another thing that zip-lock bags are good for is keeping certain odors in the bags and certain odors out.  I cannot even count the number of times that my father would pack a roast beef sandwich to bring to school to lunch,  and by the time lunch came around, I could smell the sandwich before I even opened my locker. . Finally, I asked him to put my sandwich in a zip-lock bag, and I never had a smelly locker again.
	There are also times when foods tend to take on the smells of other foods to which they are near.  One solution would be to put the odorous food in a bag, but if that cannot be done for some reason (for example, you are going to serve it for a fancy dinner later), you can put the surrounding food in the bag, to keep the smell out.  A third solution would be to bag everything!
	But, there are other uses for zip-lock bags.  Where else can you put ice to hold on a swelling lip, without it melting and getting everything wet?  And for traveling, these baggies are even better.  Too many times people have opened suitcases at the end of a long day, only to find shampoo all over their "dry-clean only's" (onlies???)  Gallon size zip-lock bags, solve this problem.  In these a person can fit a whole bottle of shampoo and a bottle of conditioner!  And for the Q-tips that you want to keep dry, the pantyhose you do not want to snag, the earing you do not want to lose one of, and the shaving cream you do not want to squirt all over the place, the bathing suit that's too wet to pack , the zip-lock bag is the answer.
	What more could you ask for?  A place where you can put food, clothes, wet things and dry things  -- and it does not weigh anything nor take up space.  The zip-lock bag was definitely a good invention.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0019.1>


	Much has occured in the 20th century that has changed the way people live.  The invention that comes to mind as being the most influential is the computer.  This invention of the late 20th century has forever changed the way people live and work.  
	The first computers were expensive monsters that filled an entire room and could perform only a few calculations a second.  With the advancement in technology and the move toward miniaturization, the desktop PC has evolved.  These small, relatively inexpensive machines can do everything their  predecessors did and much more.  Every day new and exciting improvements are being made to enhance the performance of these tools.
	The impact of computers on the world has been great.  They have changed the way people do business and have radically altered the way data and information is dealt with. In short, the productivity of people has increased ten-fold. As we move into the 2st century this fact will become more important.  The amount of information that is available in the world will require the use of computers to organize and extract that which is of interest.  The personal computer has, and will continue to play a major role in our lives.  The day is just around the corner when every human being in the developed world will have their own PC linked by cellular modem to the databases of the world, other PCs, and small digital assistants that will replace the printed page.  We have only just begun to realize the impact of this 20th century miracle.   We are limited only by our imaginations
 and the future of this invention looks "bright" indeed.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0020.1>

	One of the most important discoveries of the 20th Century would have to be AIDS.  This discovery of AIDS has changed how people think, live, and view mortality.  At first, AIDS was thought to be a predominantly homosexual disease.  Since there was little tolerance of homosexuality in the early 80's, no one really cared that gays would die.  Then it became known that IV drug users could also contract AIDS.  And once again no one really cared, simply because they thought AIDS would never effect them.  How wrong they were.
 Once children became infected with AIDS, society began to care.  It was inconceivable that a small child could die from such a horrific disease.  As the 80's came to a close there was a greater awareness of AIDS;  however, with the awareness also came discrimination.
	Ryan White, a twelve year old hemophiliac, was the first person to have his disease widely publicized.  Everyone was in a panic that their children would get AIDS simply from being around Ryan.  Thus began the campaign to educate the public on how one contracts AIDS.  It was seen everywhere (and still is)- on t.v., magazines, radio, & in the schools.  Parents are still fighting the distribution of condoms in schools  and they want their children to learn abstinence and not sex education.  Abstinence is the only safe way to prevent AIDS, but society must be realistic.  Children are becoming sexually active at the age of eleven.  How likely is it that an eleven year old is going to go to a pharmacy & buy condoms?  Most people are more careful about who they sleep with, and AIDS has become less of a taboo subject & more of an accepted reality.
	Due to the discovery of AIDS people are aware that if they are promiscuous & do not practice safe sex, they could die.  Society has become aware of its mortality, and in some cases, has banded together to try to find a cure for AIDS.  Right now, more important than a cure, is the acceptance of AIDS victims & the education of the public.  It's too bad that it takes a superstar like Magic Johnson to contract AIDS & grab the attention of the public.  Even if a cure is never found.  AIDS victims should be accepted & given the respect that they deserve.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0021.1>

	Interestingly enough, this topic is one that is very important to me.  I often dwell on the characteristics of mankind that lead us to continually invent new things.  We seem to be somewhat obsessed with technology, and using it to dominate nature, as well as our fellow man.  Technology and inventions seem to stem from our natural fear of death and our human insecurities.  We attempt to  dominate nature so that we may live without fearing death, and we attempt to dominate other people so that we may live without our petty insecurities.  For these reasons , I would argue that the only inventions of the twentieth century that have significantly changed people's lives for the better are those that have occured in the medical field.  Although these inventions do stem from a fear of death, they do not attempt to dominate nature nor other human beings as the majority of other inventions do.  They save lives.
	By closely analyzing the nature of modern inventions, one notes a consistent trend leading away from a lifestyle that is peacefully coexistent with nature.   We are ourselves a part of nature, yet we attempt to live outside of it.  We continue to destroy the plants, animals, and the earth itself  and our new inventions help us to do it in more efficient ways.  Therefore, inventions in the 0the century have had, for the most part, a negative affect on our lives because by destroying nature, we're destroying ourselves.
	In addition, our inventions are used to dominate one another.  We invent better weapons and better economic systems geared for killing and depriving other people.
	Medical inventions, on the other hand, are designed to help people of all colors, and cannot be used to dominate nature or other people. They are one of the only truely "kind" expressions of mankind's creativity.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0022.1>

	A large, 1/2 egg, sometimes as large as a small FIAT, with a metal arrow in it's center has changed the size of the world, and communication amongst the countries within it.  The satellite dish, created in the last 0 years, has changed the meaning of telecommunication.  In part, it has created The Information Age, as the latter part of the 20th ctry, is often labelled.  Not certain about the date of its invention, it must be recognized as one of the more vital tools used in society today, amongst world leaders, trading companies, and the media, as well as the entertainment world.
	Ted Turner revolutionized the use of the satellite, with his creation of CNN, the round-the-clock, round-the-world news station.  Presidents and dictators alike switch the channel to recieve first hand information from the network, such as impeachments, coup d'etats or civil wars.  Decisions, of governmental autonomy, are being made, based on that nights news CNN commentator.
	The leaders and presidents of enterprises such as panasonic and CORE refer to CNN, created by satellite dish, on a daily bases.  Stocks are an integral part of their livelihood.
	The entertainment world has taken full advantage of the satellite dish, subtitling the Information Age, with the MTV age.  The creation of MTV in 1980, has dramatically changed the entertainment business.  The money poured into creating videos, and the profits from viewership- have had a strong affect on the world economy.  40% of U.S. millionares are entertainers.
	The Satellite dish has also created distinct advantages for Cable TV and naval programs as well.  The intelligence of an average teenager is lowering itself due to cable viewing, created by the satellite dish.  Naval programs have wasted exceeding amounts of money in the United States, due to the satellite dish.  And one must not forget space programs such a STARWARS.
	The creation of the satellite dish in the past 20 years, has altered the average intelligence of the human being for the better and sometimes worse. It has created an information age, which could be dangerous, and heightened an entertainer's salary.  The pro's and con's of the satellite dish are numerous. The only observation which can be made, is that: It has altered people lives significantly.  It is up to the average person to decide if this alteration will be for the better or worse.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0023.1>

	The 0th Century Invention that has had one of the most radical effects on people's lives is the television.  During the 1950's, America witnessed the beginnings of a cultural revolution.  The era of Populuxe instigated a `must-have' ideology in the nation and the most important `must-have' was, of course, the television.  The  presence of television has brought about several crucial trends in our culture: the mass culturization of various grupes, the commercialization of our lifestyles, and the rapidity and breath of the information that reaches us.
	Gathered around the tube, the American family learned the `ideal' way of life.  But the picture of perfection was the same in every home.  We all received the same information.  We all saw the same families, The Cleavers & The Andersons, etc. telling how we should behave.  Mother was always beautiful, father knew best,  & children had cute, silly, harmless problems.  As a result of this omniscient picture, a farmer in Iowa had an idea of what a family in New York consisted of.  People in N.Y. watched Green Acres.   Today the same trend continues.  To white people, Ghetto life is slightly less of a mystery.  The examples on television are blown-up &exaggerated, but people get a general idea of different lifestyles.  Rather than several small, isolated cultures, the united States is moving towards a mass culturalization
 and the presence of another's reality in our homes is a major part of the reason.
	Another effect of the television on people's lives is the commercialization of our lives.  Advertisements, which originally served only to inform people of their purchasing options, have developed into an art form.  15 second blocks of our time are sold for millions of dollars and as a result the American population is made to laugh, or to cry, & often times to buy a product.
	Finally, & perhaps most importantly, the citizens of America have experienced w/ the advent of the television a great increase in the amount of information they receive, as well as in the time it takes to reach them.  A hundred years ago, different sections of the country (and world) were isolated & separated by the time it takes to mail a letter & print a newspaper story.
 Today, we know within seconds, or in the case of the space-shuttle challenger explosion, we know live-immediately.  This abundance of information has lead to a drastic alteration in peoples ability to react to major events.  Our view of the world is different, it's closer, it's in our livingrooms.  A good example of this is the reaction to the vietnam war.  The war was, indeed, unpopular with or w/o television.  But the reality of what we saw, the casualty counts, the bloody children under the American flag, did much to enhance the negative aspects of war.
	Overall the television has caused a radical change in our lives-
 we are open to manipulation as well as stimulation. The television a powerful and dangerous tool. It can greatly inhance & improve our lives, but it is most  important to be aware of the fact that it is a manipulator.  We must watch what we watch.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0024.1>

	They cried, they cheered.   Their faces expressed joy, triumph, pride and perplexity.  The world watched in anticipation --  We were mesmirized by the images of the TV, expecting something new at every moment and not wanting to miss it --  I remember that day it was the only topic of conversation at school: "Have you heard?", "I can't believe it!", "After all this time!", "I never thought it would happen."  We all felt that we were living one of those historic moment that you read about in a history book and were proud to be a part of it --  It was November 9, 1989, the day that the Wall fell in Berlin-
	Within a few weeks, the excitement had died down and people had turned their attention to more recent news.  But for me, this had been the start.  It was the start of what our now as-President Bush likes to refer to as "our" winning of the Cold War --  It was the event that gave the people of the Eastern Bloc countries the hope that their efforts were not in vain --  For 40 years, the people had suffered under a communist regime that had not allowed them to express themselves freely or to leave their homelands in search of a new life --   Many people had tried to escape. Some had been executed --  I had a classmate whose father had escaped from Hungary --  He had left his family and friends, his whole life and had set out for Western Europe with little money.  I had asked him once if he hadn't been scared, scared of what he would find once he left --  He told me that nothing could compare to the way he had been forced to live his life there --  Even though I had lost touch with this classmate, her father's words were with me as I watched the events unfold in Germany --
	Bolstered by the Germans' success, the people of Hungary, Tchekoslovaquia, Poland and Roumania rose against communist regimes as well --  Now, three years later, communism as we once knew it no longer exists.  Whether the people are happier or not, I cannot say --  However, they will have at least seen the "other side".  Their struggles and hopes of forty years will not have been in vain --  Without the "events of Berlin Wall" history probably would not have taken a very different course --  Eventually, I think that things would have turned out as they did --  However, history cannot be rewritten and as things stand the Fall of the Berlin Wall actively contributed to the resurgence of hope and struggle in the rest of the Eastern Bloc --  As such, it was the catalyst force that led to the end of the Cold War and therefore, though we may not always remember the other significant events, we will always remember the day the wall fell -- 


<ICLE-US-MICH-0025.1>

	There has been a literal explosion of inventions during the twentieth century ranging from the garbage disposal to the A-bomb.  Some were created to make one lives easier, others to make our lives longer, all were created for the purpose of advancing a civilization.  While each one of these inventions has affected our lives in one way or another, some stand out as more significantly changing our mode of living.  Perhaps one does stand out a little more among its competition, however; that is the television.
	Before the late 1940's entertainment, news, and information vertually all came through newspapers & radio.  A system that seemed to work, many households throughout the nation owned or had access to a radio and or newspaper where they could get the day's information easily and completely.  And, in the case of the radio, all was almost immediate.  Description of sporting events, voices acting out stories, persons of the government speaking directly to the people, the radio seemed the perfect solution to countries with its citizens living at all ends of its boarders.
	The advent of the television changed all of that, however, giving the public a "peak" at what radio wasn't able to give them.  Along with the news and information the radio brought to the homes of the people of the world, the television was able to add images- pictures that enhanced the entire absorbtion of what was being broadcast.  Where once a reporter's voice described a scene, now the people could see for themselves what was happening because, for the most part, it was happening in front of their eyes.
	Besides the obvious higher level of enjoyment television watching may bring its viewer, the most important aspect of this creation is its ability to bring the worlds together.  A president of one country can be seen and heard in a country far away giving his views and ideas so that all can "understand" him.  The small town store owner can watch her son in his olympic race as it's happening without spening thousands to travel to see him in person.  The examples could be endless.
	The television strength must be realized, however, as it does have the power to reach so many and persuade so many more.  It is a multimillion dollar business that has developed into even more facets of media which has become a significant part of our lives.  It is a power we should be thankful to control as long as we do just that, control it.  We can make television work for us in medicine, politics, education, and so much more so it is necesary to remember to keep the vision in television.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0026.1>
	
	There has been many inventions in the 20th century that have changed our everyday lives.  Some have had a great impact, while others have not.  The computer however in this, the information age, has had a great impact on how society and especially business gathers, creates, responds to and, understands everyday information.
	The computer has been around since the end of the Second World War. It was mainly used though, by corporations and government to process the huge amounts of information that they needed to gather.  At that time the ordinary everyday person had no need to process information as we do today.  As the world got more complex and people started to process and receive information that was much more sophisticated, they needed a tool in order to help them with it.  No longer was a secretary and a typewriter enough to handle the ever increasing needs that technology and business put upon society.
	In 1980 IBM Corporation started a revolution that today continues full force to dominate our everyday lives;  the invention of the personal computer. What the PC (personal computer) meant for society was an affordable tool that would help one sort out, save, delete or add and receive information in one's own home.  This made it possible to write papers, look over databases, do your taxes and expense accounts, just about anything that you had to do.  It was a way to organize your work and the information that you had to process in an easier fashion and much more quickly.  Since 1980 there have been many advances in the technology that was first made available because of this machine.  They got faster, more sophisticated, more programs were made available, and they soon became more compatible with other technologies.  What this meant was that you now had a faster tool that could do more, receive more, and analyze more information than ever before.  Today you can sit in your home at the terminal and create just about any form of document that you wish.  You can use it to do just about any task you need it for.  Also with the use of Modem you can tap into information sources through the phone on the other computers.  You can, with a modem and a computer, recieve and process all types of information that you might need.  With the invention of the portable computer you were now able to take that database of information anywhere you wished and put it to use.  This meant that with the use of the computer and associated technologies such as a phone and a fax you could do anything from almost anywhere.  It is a very powerful tool indeed.
	What the computer has meant for society is that it has enabled us to widen our understanding of what goes on in the world by allowing us access to databases and information systems more easily, that before were not available.
It has made our lives easier in turn, because with more information you need a tool to better sort it out and put that information into a way we can more easily process it.  In the future you will be able to sit at a terminal and be able to access whatever it is you need, and because this machine has the power to do that, it will in turn become even more central and important in our lives.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0027.1>

	The turn of the century has brought with it many changes that have greatly altered lives throughout the globe.  Each decade in itself has introduced a new "fad" or discovery that has been fixed in our minds as "typical" of the era. The "Roaring 20's" for example was marked by flapper skirts and the invention of the automobile.  A very capricious decade, it can be contrasted with the years of hunger and unemployment that marked the "Great Depression" of the 30's.  How could we ever forget the "Fabulous Fifties" or the hippie decade of the 60's and 70's?  For change is inevitable, and as difficult as it may be to pinpoint any one accomplishment that has taken place over the last 100 years as the most remarkable of the decade, there is one aspect of the 20th Century that will remain with me forever.  So as we embark on the year 2000, I think it is only fair to call the 20th Century, "The Century of Democracy."
	Perhaps, it is because today is November 4th, the day after the U.S. elections.  Perhaps, it is because the former superpower of the Soviet Union is now making its transition into a democracy.  Perhaps, it is because I am thousands of miles from my home, but I'm feeling very patriotic these days.
 No, I'm not engulfed in the typical ethnocentric idealism of a citizen from the United States.  Rather, I'm feeling patriotic because I can look around the world today and see that it is becoming a better place to live for people of all nations.
	In the past 2 years alone, we have seen people all over the world finally take a stand for what they believe.  Not too long ago, I remember the democratic demonstrations that caused the people of East and West Germany to unite as one democratic superpower.  At the World Expo in Sevilla, not a month ago, I bought a chunk of what was once the Berlin Wall- the Wall that was a symbol to many of the harsh realities of the Cold War.  That wall is gone forever and I feel lucky to be among the many who could follow its happening.
	The Soviet Union, as well is going through its own transition to democracy.  The many unhappy people of this troubled nation finally took it upon themselves to rid their nation of its communist government.  The superpower among superpowers that to me had long been the example of marxism is now following in the footsteps of the rest of the world.
	With the end of the Cold War, there has been more peaceful relations throughout the world.  The idea of a nuclear war is practically non-existent today.  Arms sales have gone down so that nations may spend this money in more worthwhile areas.
	In conclusion, as the turn of the century slowly approaches, I look back with a feeling of accomplishment as well as anticipation as to what lies ahead.  As a world of many scattered nations, conflict is inevitable.  However, if we all have one bond- democracy- then maybe together, we can learn to understand one another, and work towards a happier world for all.



<ICLE-US-MICH-0029.1>

	The discovery of the Atomic energy, is undoubtedly the the most awesome as well as terrible invention not only of the 20th century but of all time.
In 1945, J. Robert Oppenheimer unveiled to the world his invention in the form that is still most familiar to us today: The Atomic bomb.
	The reason behind the fear that this energy causes is routed in its incredible power to destroy.  Never before had the world seen something with such a capacity to kill.  Never before had one object of such small size been able to take so many lives.   For this reason, It is considered the most awe-inspiring and dangerous weapon in the world.
	Unfortunately, with each progressive day, the world's need for this dangerous energy augments. For not only does it have the capacity to kill,
 but also the capability to supply and energize the world.  The drawback is the danger.  In utilizing this power in plants and factories we run the risk of contaminating our land, blowing holes in our sky, rendering our seas useless, and killing our species as well as all the species of the earth.
	Although we have many other power source alternatives, we still continue to use this dangerous invention. It is illogical to think that with continued nuclear use, we can escape harm.  Already as a result of pollution and other various factors, we have holes in our ozone layer and problems with our soil in many parts of the world.  It would be logical to think that the leaders of the world would confer and aspire to put a stop to nuclear use in an effort to avoid any further damage to the earth and its inhabitants.
	The saddest part of this tragedy is that there have been very few efforts to do so.  The lack of sight from our leaders is almost appalling. With the lack of respect for the planet that is the general attitude of today, what is to become of our children.
	The current situation of the world's environment is a sad one.  It is also however, a problem of which nuclear energy is only a small piece. Unfortunately, the day will soon come when the damage caused by this apathy will be irreversable.  This is why it is imperative to act today. It starts with you.  Write your local congressman.



<ICLE-US-MICH-0031.1>

	One of the most significant inventions of the 20th century has to do with the speed at which information is now communicated throughout the globe. In fact, all improvements in communication have had a profound effect upon the way in which people live their lives.  If I were to choose the most frequently used and influential invention of the field, it would have to be the television.  Through the television, news and information can be graphically displayed at the very same time that it is happening.  This simple fact has changed in many ways how we live, and in a way it has, and continues to shrink the planet we live on.  There are, however, several downsides to the television, and, like all inventions can be used in a useless way.
	Not even truly dealing with the amount of television that is watched by the average person, there are several other important ways that television had changed people's lives.  One interesting development has been the use of television in wars.  The vietnam war was the first time that U.S. citizens were able to really see what it was like to be at war.  This was one of the factors that led to much of the protesting.  We are able also to see for ourselves what is happening around the globe, and this has led to public concern and effort, for instance, in Somalia.  Of course radio was already able to transmit the sound, but the coming of the picture has had even more significance.
	The greatest effect that television has had is that it has made smaller the dimensions of the planet.  Gone are the days of unknown and unheard of areas.  Television is able to bring any part of the world into your very living room within a matter of seconds.  It is also a very influential and powerful device in that it is the easiest way in which to communicate with populations.  There are many who feel that it can be a harmful thing, and this is true.  It is also used in ways that can desensitize one's sense of what is actually being portrayed because the picture itself is not real.  Either way, however, that it is used, there is no doubt that it has been one of the most significant inventions of the 20th century.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0032.1>

	An invention of the 20th century which I think has significantly changed people's lives is the invention of the airplane.  The extend to which this invention has altered people's lives is astronomical.  The airplane opened doors to traveling and also broadened people's perceptions of the entire world.  It also introduced what seemed a completely impossible concept which no human is capable of doing without a machine: the concept of flying.
	Before the invention of the airplane, long distance traveling was a very difficult, time consuming task.  For this reason people did not travel extremely long distances and missed the opportunity of visiting countries with cultures very different from their own.  One could travel by boat but this was inconvenient and often dangerous because of various things like disease, hunger, and threatening weather;  also as noted above, it was extremely time consuming.  Because of the lack of long distance travel people often had a very ethnocentric and limited concept of the world.  I have learned a lot about my own culture just from being in Spain and that is the only foreign country I have ever visited.  I can admit that before I came to Spain I was very ignorant about other cultures.  Even though I would watch the news and read about other cultures I still did not have the opportunity to witness it first hand.
	The invention of the airplane has opened many doors and one other door is international relations.  Since the invention of the airplane the world has increased close contact between political systems, and international business endeavors.  The frequency that which foreign countries are able to communicate and negotiate face to face has improved drastically the establishment of international trade.  The airplane has also basically speeded up the whole postal communication system also.  Life with airplanes is more rapid paced.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0033.1>

	The medical profession of the 20th century has made many exciting discoveries advancing its ability to cure many ailing human beings; however, with all of the new technology & discoveries we find ourselves struggling to survive the disease AIDS.
	Due to the ineffectiveness of medicines; the population has needed to seek other forms of comfort & rehabilitation.  During the 20th century hospitals have begun support centers for people to deal w/ their disease & help the rest of the population to become more educated in this matter.  If AIDS can not be prevented by medication, it is possible that it can be prevented by knowledge.
	Many schools have begun inviting victims of AIDS to speak in open assembly directly involving young children in the seriousness of the disease.
Due to the fright of AIDS many people choose to ignore that it exists; however, it does & it's killing our population.  Upon realizing that homosexuals are not the only possible carriers of the disease, but drug abusers, people who interact w/ many unknown sexual partners, as well as dentists who "forget to put on their plastic gloves;" people may begin to think before acting.  For example, drugs are a grave matter in their own, however, most people do not think in terms of drugs as a possible suicide. However, if a person begins to inject random needles in the body he/she is not only in danger of the drugs effect, but the possibility of contracting the AIDS virus.
	People are afraid to come in contact w/ carriers of AIDS;  however, they interact sexual w/ complete strangers.  If they were a bit more educated then they would realize they have actually been selling their lives short.
	Obviously, our culture has begun to educate its population or I would be unable to write about this particular topic.
	The AIDS viruses was discovered during the 20th century & changed many peoples lives for the worst.  However, hopefully w/ education & our advancing medical technology & medicine we can make even more discoveries as to how to prevent this killer.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0034.1>

	Without a doubt, one of the most important inventions of the 20th century has been contact lenses.  If glasses were my only form of seeing better, I'd be blind most of the time!   How would I be able to see while swimming, waterskiing, or participating in other sports?  Contact lenses are a part of my everyday life; something that I take for granted, yet on the other hand, something that I'd be lost without. 
	In the early stages of contact lenses, a style called "hard lenses" were the only kind made. I've never used them, but I've heard from others that they're uncomfortable & a pain to clean & insert.  Once "soft lenses" were introduced to the public, the "lense craze" caught rapidly & hasn't died down, yet. I got my first pair of contact lenses when I was fourteen years old.
 I had been wearing glasses since the time I was 10  & I was tired of being limited in certain athletic activities because of my sight.  At the time, I played basketball;  if I wore my glasses, they would end up on the floor
 and if I didn't wear them, I'd be more or less "blind".  Also, I enjoyed swimming- even though I could hardly see far enough in front of me to see where I was headed!   After my eyes adjusted to the initial "sting" when I inserted my first pair of lenses, I knew that my glasses would be placed in my desk drawer & stay there!
	About two years ago, another type of lenses were made accessible to the public.  They're called "disposables"  & I can't even begin to explain what a difference they make.  You can wear them for a week & then throw them away -- with no worries about cleaning them & taking them out every night before going to sleep.  It's such a great feeling to wake up in the morning, open your eyes, & be able to see perfectly!  In the past, I'd have to "feel my way" to the bathroom until I could stumble upon my contact lense case & insert them with my nose up against the mirror.
	Also, contact lenses come in different colors for people who aren't happy with their own (which I must admit is a bit ridiculous!).-  But, people buy them, so who am I to say!
	There have been hundreds of other amazing inventions during the 20th century, but contact lenses are definitely at the top of my list;  glasses are a thing of the past!

<ICLE-US-MICH-0035.1>

	Cars, telephones, and nuclear energy are just three examples of inventions and discoveries that have had profound effects on modern day life.  We must remember, however, that the field of technology is not the only one in which significant advances have been made in the 0th century.  Another "discovery" of this past century has been feminism, which has had a significant impact on the lives of both men and women.
	Of course, the issue of feminism is not a new one, but it is just within the past century that much progress has been made towards the equality of women (with the important exception of women winning the right to vote in the 1800s).  As recently as the 1950s, it was still the most typical as well as the ideal to have the woman in the home, housekeeping and tending the children.   The first significant equal rights movement in the U.S. was in the 70s with the Equal Rights Amendment, which failed.  Even today, the woman is still only earning something like 60 cents for every dollar that a man earns.
	Feminism does not only have to do with work and money, but also with the image of women.  It's only recently that we've "discovered", or begun to think about rather, how much things as varying as pornography or the language we use helps to form the image of women.  A recognition of such influences on the image of women is the first step in breaking it down, so that women are seen for who they truly are.
	Feminism is better described as a "discovery in progress"; it's a movement, an attitude that has not yet become mainstream.  Only when women have achieved equality with men, will there cease to be a need for feminism, and the discovery will have been completed.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0036.1>

	The idea I feel that has most significantly changed people's lives in the 20th century is that of caring for the environment.  Today, people have become aware of the importance of environment to our future.
	People are concerned with nuclear weapons.  We realize that countries that which have many weapons have the power to destroy the world.  Also related to this topic is nuclear waste.  Nuclear waste is not only harmful to humans;  it also kills animals & plants.  We are now fighting for acts to clean up our lakes & rivers.  Companies are no longer able to freely dump their wastes w/o being heavily fined.
	People have also become concerned with nature.  We used to assume our natural resources were never ending.  Now, though, we realize what we use, needs to be replaced.  For example deforestation is a very big issue, many groups have formed to plant more trees.  We also realize our fossil fuels need to be used more conservatively.
	Another important topic we are all aware of is recycling.  This links 2 issues, one of not producing much nonbiodegradable products & the other of reusing what we have.  (Recycling in a small way also helps those w/o homes b/c they receive money for their collections).  Many countries realize that recycling is not only beneficial to their economy it also is beneficial to their environment.
	 Another important issue is that of conserving energy.  In the past, once again, we assumed our energy was never ending.  Now though people are more inclined to turn off their lights when they're not in their rooms, to not leave taps running and basically not to waste our natural resources.  We realize that conserving is not beneficial to our environment but it is also saves money.
	We have also become more considerable of our animal life.  We are no longer able to kill animals freely.  We do still raise some for food but hunting is limited & we are all aware of the possibilities of extinction.  One realizes that animals have rights too.
	In conclusion, the idea of caring for the environment is still a new one.  We are slowly becoming more aware & are beginning to take more precautions.  The ideas above are just a few of the topics we are now concerned with.  But we are heading in the right direction & hopeful by the 21st century we will have fixed everything we have destroyed!

<ICLE-US-MICH-0037.1>

	Computers have definitely effected peoples lives.  I have a computer  and my life has change because of it.  I'm able to store almost all the information I need for school & for other things in my computer whereas before I had a computer my desk was cluttered w/ paper & records of all sorts, I no longer need to keep these records but only to transfer them to my computer. This means I'm able to store more information in an organized fashion.  Though I have only used a fraction of my computer's ability, I'm still aware of the tremendous opportunities which I have or will have.  Aside from being able to store great amounts of info, I'm also able to process & to edit things quickly.  For example, without the use of a computer I had to balance my checkbook once a month & had to this w/ a calculator, a pen & a piece of paper.  Of course, this was very time consuming & open to error.  W/ the use of a computer I have programmed the computer to make the calculations which I once had to make.  Also, w/ the use of the Word Processor I'm able to edit & rearrange documents w/out altering the entire document, & furthermore, though I have yet to use the Communications program in my computer, this program seems to be extraordinarily helpful.  My father has the same program in his computer & is able to buy on line tickets w/out leaving the house  & moreover w/out picking up the phone.  Also, I realize that my experience w/ computers is limited & that the power of computers, for me, is incomprehensible.
	I'm now here in Madrid.  How did I get there?   Well, I applied to the this program, was accepted, & flew here form the US.  But, w/out the use of computers I would still be struggling w/ the secretary in the International Programs Office at Boston University, no doubt.  Instead, once I applied to the program- the application for which was probably computer generated- I assume my info was processed by a computer.  W/out this luxury, the International Programs Office would inevitably inundated w/ paperwork & things would therefore be lost or at least misplaced.  When booking my flight, though I did not do this myself, the transaction would seem impossible minus the aid of computers.  Computers have had a most significant impact on the people in the latter 1/2 of the 20th century.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0038.1>

Without question, the geo-centric satellite is the invention of the century. It has allowed people from opposite ends of the world to not only hear, but see events as they happen.  As it happens- the most profound byproduct of the satellite.  Certainly, other evention of great importance preceed, and in fact, allow for the existence of the satellite, namely, radio, T.V. & videotape.  However, none of these invention possess the "nowness" offered by the satellite.  With certainty, the satellite has openned the world to comprehensive view.  And, to a certain extent, it has influenced now the world functions.  For example, we've all witnessed the bravery of the Chinese student who stood firm, litterally, against Communism in the Teniman Square uprising in China 2 years ago.  Freedom US. the tank of injustice made its way into the lives of most of the world's people.  Without the satellite, the movement for democracy, the stance made by he young hero of freedom, would have been lost due to the stagnation of time.  The satellite permitted the world to experience the wave of democracy in China as it happened.  It is reasonable to conclude also, that without the satellite, the instantaneous demands of the world community for China's government to adhere to the demands of its people would not have occurred.  Although the movement for freedom in China was crushed, the truth was told.  And it is certain, that in the future, governments and people a like, will be less tempted to do wrong, and mor willing to do right, knowing the satellite keeps a watchful eye on all of us.  Truth before sensorship- this is the biggest advantage the satellite offers. Plus when China is placed down the block, who wouldn't want to help his neighbor? 

<ICLE-US-MICH-0039.1>

	The advancement of our technology in the 20th century has greatly influenced the lives and companies of the world.  Technology is improving every day with smaller, better, faster microchips and advancements.  With respect to the people computers have definantly had a tremendous influence. Not only are companies able to keep enormous amounts of data filed on disks, or chips, but students now have access to a whole new way of learning.
	Computers have been a god send for large companies to file large amounts of information.  For example, in libraries, the use of a card catalog is no longer used and books can be looked up on computers.  In hospitals and law firms where the paperwork was endless, much of it is now able to be filed into a neater, easily accesible, computer system.
	As far as students are concerned, computers are revolutionary.  Students no longer have to spend hours trying to type their paper w/o making spelling errors, now they can focus their time on the writing and leave spelling errors for the computer to fix.  Papers can be printed out neatly with whatever margins, font, and size of print the student wants to use.  Computers have therefore made paper writing a much easier task.
	Computers can now also be used as great teaching instruments from everything from Biology to understanding of the cosm graph in Mathematics. They have enabled to students to learn in more ways than were previosly used,
and for some students they have been an incredible useful tool in learning.
	The extend to which computers can be used has just begun to really take hold,  but they is clearly imp in many aspects of our lives.  With the increasing technology who knows where these machines will take us.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0040.1>

	An invention of the 20th century that I think has significantly changed people's lives is television.  TV allows the instantaneous communication of ideas, images, news, etc.   Now, if something is happening in any part of the world- from across town all the way to Beijing -- every person in the world can watch this event as it is happening.  While previously people had to wait days, or even weeks for news (which consisted of second-or third-hand accounts, which always involved much interpretation & distortion) now they can see it happening, for themselves, as it is happening, this allows them to make their own, informed judgment about the event; and if a reaction is necessary- such as the gathering of opposition to a certain law -- it can be made immediately, while the emotions are still strong, and before the action is finalized.  As well, the fact that so many people (especially in the US) have television sets means that everybody (well, at least everybody who watches) receives the same inflow of information & ideas.  So, for example, people in Spain can be informed about how people in California or Japan speak & act, this allows people from different cultures to come together and discuss ideas.
	 In my opinion, this is one part of the process of making the world a "smaller", more unified place, or a "global village" as one journalist has called this world of the Information Age.
	Not only the news, but also entertainment is an important practical function of television, through television entertainment, as through literature & drama, people learn different messages about life.  They can see various actions acted out to their ends, and understand the consequences of these actions, without having to perform the same actions and experience the consequences for themselves.  Unfortunately these TV shows are not always accurate portrayals of real life and have a tendency to glorify violence, as well as making life seem the good guy always wins, and always lives thru dangerous situations.  However, this sense of reality is not so distorted, and so hidden that people are going around acting like Superman.  As long as one has a well-developed sense of reality, TV can be an excellent tool for understanding the world we live in.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0041.1>

	The waters of the culunary seas have been calm and consistant for centuries.  Progress has move slow like the tides and the constant rythm of the waves have showed little changed.  However with the daybreak of the twentyth century a storm has brewed.  With this storm the waters have churned and spawned a wave that has crashed upon the rocks of every kitchen.  This wave is the microwave.
	Never before has such an invention revolutionized a science like this.
 A complete break has been forged in the way food is prepared.  At the dawn of time, cave men cooked animal flesh over open fires.  As History progressed, spits and barbeques emerged.  Technology saw the advent of the wood stove, and later ones fueled by coal.  Modern times saw gas and electric ranges as to staple.  All these things had one thing in common: FIRE.  Flame, the source of life, always used to prepare the fool of mankind throughout History. However, the microwave uses radiation to excite water particles in food, thus creating friction, which creates heat.  This is a prime example of thinking that does not follow in old footsteps but breaks away from convention and forges new routes.
	If this were not amazing enough, the microwave cuts cooking time in half.  If you had told someone 100 yrs ago that you could cut cooking time in half, and not use fire, they would have thought you crazy, or bewitched, or under the influence of heavy drugs.  In an age where time is the scarcest comodity, our society has embraced this eliminator of wasted hours in the kitchen.   A mother who works, can come home can whip up something in minutes in the microwave, whereas before she would have been slaving in the kitchen.  The microwave is excellent for re-heating making it easier for people to make excess food to be eaten later.  Again time is conserved --  Children are able to use this simple device without parental fear of fires starting.  For As I have said before, there is no fire!  This marvel of technology has helped propel people into the dizzing pace of life that most of us lead in the 20th century.
	Throughout History one can see that great revelations in all areas come from breaks in tradition, new insights, and differents perspectives.  All these were needed to create the microwave which is essential nowadays.  Eating is something everyone must do.  This device has sped up one of our most important activities  and thus revolutionized life in the fast paced 20th century.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0042.1>


	When I was in tenth grade a teacher said that the 2 most important inventions that made possible the idea of a repressive government were the machine gun and the radio. A machine gun can be used to keep civil peace, enforce Marshall Law.  The radio can be used to communicate ideas and under a dictatorship, propaganda.
	In the 20th Century the machine gun has not changed all that many lives (except for those that it' s killed), but the invention of radio has made a tremendous impact.
	The idea behind the radio is simple.  There is one transmitter and it sends its signals through the air, waves, with potential for millions of receivers.  In the 20th Century radio has become a source of information and entertainment.
	Radio keeps people informed.  I don' t think any people of my generation can even comprehend now our lives would be different.  Every morning I listen for the weather forcast and dress accordingly.  At night one can sit by the radio  and hear how the events of the day unfolded.  Radio, hence, gives people the option of becoming passive observers rather than active participants in the news making process.  Newspapers had been around for many years but it was not until the invention of radio that the power of the media became evident.  Radio gives the ability to reach many more people, instantly.
	As a form of entertainment, radio & its most important and now more common offshoot, television, has changed people's lives.  A typical day for a child in today's world, consists of going to school & coming home to watch T.V.  There have even been forms of entertainment, for example videogames, made for this other form of entertainment.  Nowadays everybody watches T.V.
My señora, for example, is over 100 years old, and for her T.V. is the greatest thing in the world.  She sits in front of it all day and it keeps her happy.  Television offers soap operas, game shows, sit-coms, sporting events, movies and much more to keep us entertained 24 hours a day. 
	In short, I don' t know what life was like before radio, but its invention has changed the way we see and do things.


<ICLE-US-MICH-0043.1>

	During the 20th century there have been many advances in science and modern technology that have made a significant impact on peoples lives.
	For instance a microwave is a brilliant addition to the lives of many people.
	In today's society it is common, in the "average" family for both parents to work.  Microwaves can be extremely efficient for heating up left overs and speeding up the process of preparing a meal.
	In my family, my parents work and I go to school and work as well.
 We have a system where we each take turns cook. We each have particular nights that we must prepare and cook a meal.
	Sometimes I cut up all the vegetables, put them into their little "microwavable" containers and add a little bit of water to the bottom. This speeds up the preparation process and then all I have to do is pop them into the microwave and they' re done in minutes.
	On the other hand, there are people who feel that an appliance such as a microwave is an unnecessary addition to their household.
	In fact I have a little story to tell about that very thing.
	My great Uncle and Aunt who are in their late eighties recieved a microwave for Christmas three years ago.  My great Uncle opened the box and said something to the effect of "You young people today, feel the need to rush around so much that you can't even take the time out to appreciate the work that goes into making a meal."  Granted this statement is coming from a man who still makes hand-made pasta.  But the point is, is that a microwave isn't right for everyone.
	The long and short of the story is that my great uncle gave the micro-wave to my parents and it has been a wonderful appliance for all of us.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0044.1>

	An invention of the 20th century which I feel has significantly changed people's lives is the introduction of Bank-cash machines or Automatic teller machines.  I can not comprehend how difficult it would be without this convenience at access to money in emergencies or cases when money is needed.
It is also a convenience which helps to save time, which is very important to working men and women of the late 1900's.  This machinery also permits you to do your banking when you wish rather than the assigned banking hours.  People may argue that ATM machines will take away employment in banks but we must also focus on the positive aspects.
	ATM machines appear in all areas of the World. In the United States for example you can find machines in stores, movie theatres, parking lots at shopping malls, and at banks. In many situations I have either forgotten my wallet or not had enough money at the grocery store.  This is when I really appreciate my ATM card.  Another advantage of the card is the danger of having large quantities of cash in your home or wallet.  This entices robbers and can promote danger.
	All in all, I feel ATM cards are an excellent invention.  The convenience has proved itself in many circumstances and I do not know what I would do without my card. --  The development of computerized technology has enhanced our environment providing convenience and time saving activities which reduce the stress of our every day life.

<ICLE-US-MICH-0045.1>

	 One of the most incredible 20th century discoveries, in my opinion, is the cellular telephone.  Many people buy them to take with them wherever they go so they can receive a call at any time.  They are a complete luxury and not a necessity.
	The cellular telephone has changed people's lives in many ways: the main way being the availability to be reached at any time.  Communication is readily available in cars & on the streets now.  People are able to use their car phones in case of an emergency; if they are stranded or broken down.  They can take their cellular phones on vacations & to their friends houses if they are expecting an important call.  To me, it is a bit ridiculous, but lots of people feel like they need this easy access to a phone.
	Another way the cellular telephone has affected people's lives is the accident rate of people who are talking on their car phone.  When someone is concentrating more on their telephone conversation and less on their driving, they are more likely to get into an accident.  This happens often when people are in heavy traffic and are not concentrating on the car in front of them.  So, cellular phones also have a negative aspect to them.  Cellular telephones are also very expensive. They are expensive to buy, to install and to use. Whether you are making a call from the cellular phone or receiving a call, it costs a lot of money.  Although most people who can afford to buy a cellular phone, can afford to pay the bills!
	The other day I called my father in his office, from Madrid -  On his "party line" he was able to connect my sister in Santa Barbara and my mother in Los Angeles on her car phone.  I find it truly amazing that it is possible to speak with 4 people at once, especially when one person is in Spain and another is in a car!!  It is truly a mark of great expansion in technology.
Each year a new amazing product astonishes me even more.  I am starting to wonder when we will have robots cleaning our house and driving us around. The scary thing is that it' s just around the corner!








<ICLE-US-SCU-0001.1>

It's fourth down and just two yards to go with a forty-nine to seven lead, will they go for it? Yes they are going for it.  Many coaches in college football run the score up and the NCAA discourages it, or do they.
The NCAA has been accusing head coaches like Bobby Bowden, Steve Spurrier, and Tom Osborne of "running the score up" on weaker opponents.  These coaches allow their teams to score points well into the seventies and make the weaker teams look bad.  A prime example of this is the Florida, Carolina game.  Carolina was getting their butts beat bad and with just fourteen seconds left on the clock before halftime, coach Steve Spurrier called a timeout so that Florida could score again.  Carolina was already losing by four touchdowns.  Florida did score with two seconds left.  He wasn't done yet because in the fourth quarter Florida was faced with a fourth down and two situation twice and Steve went for it both times each time getting the first down.  They eventually scored.  The final score was Florida 63 and the Gamecocks 7. I know I made Steve Spurrier sound like a jerk, but who could blame him.  Florida held the number two ranking at the beginning of the season, but was eventually knocked down to number three because Florida State was beating their opponents worse than Florida.  Florida State was probably the better team, but Florida State lost a game along with it's ranking giving Florida a chance to regain the number two ranking.  The following week Florida was playing a really weak team, so coach Steve Spurrier was a nice guy and started his second string quarterback so the game wouldn't be so embarrassing.  Florida won by an impressive margin, thinking they would regain the number two spot, but much to their surprise, Ohio State, the number four team, slipped into the number two spot because they beat their opponent worse than Florida.  Florida was clearly the better team, so why did the NCAA, who discourages running the score up, give the better ranking to a team that did just that.  No one knows, but everyone, including the coaches, knows that running the score can be necessary, so why discourage it.
I don't believe that in most cases, these coaches run the score up purposely.  If one of these top ranked teams are winning by an unsurmountable lead, they will put their second and third string offenses and defenses in the game.  Any coach is going to let those guys play their very best because they don't get to prove themselves every game.  If the second and third strings still score and stop other offenses then what can you do? You could give them the ball and say <*>. That would be even more humiliating than losing by seventy points.  So coaches like Steve Spurrier, Bobby Bowden,' and Tom Osborne really aren't guilty of anything.
Some coaches even go further than putting their secondary players in.  They also call everything on the ground.  That means they call all running plays.  It is hard to get a first down running the ball with your top running back, much less with your second or third string running back.  So if he gets first down one after another, what can a coach do , but pass? This isn't fair because passing is quicker and more destructive than running.  Scoring quickly can cause the score to reach triple digits, so I believe that coach Spurrier, Bowden, and Osborne are doing everything in their power to not only have a winning team, but be merciful too.
Usually with good teams like Florida, Florida State, and Nebraska, there are outstanding players.  There is an award given each year called the Heisman Trophy.  It is awarded to the best player in college football.  If a player gets the award, the college he plays for will receive lots of money.  All colleges want this little pay-cut, but for a player to receive this award he has to produce record-breaking numbers, and for him to produce record-breaking numbers he has to play a long time in each game.  That is why coaches leave players in the game for so long.  Once the player has an outstanding game, number wise, he is brought out and a bench warmer gets their shot.
You may wonder why these coaches recruit players that will run the score up.  Look at it as a type of job security.  The football program is the major money maker for a college, but only if it has a winning season and goes to a bowl.  With excellent players a coach can secure a winning season.  And running the score up during the season can put you higher in the ranks which gives you a major bowl.  The more prestigious a bowl that a college goes to, the more money the college will receive for going to that bowl.  So part of the reason coaches run the score up is because they are pressured to do the best that is capable because in the end it all tables up to whether they are secured a position for the next year.
This whole time I have been sitting here talking about top ranked teams running the score up on weaker teams, but smaller teams do it to.  You may wonder why they do it to because they don't have a chance for a bowl or a Heisman shot or any kind of ranking, but they still have their fans.  Fans filter the football program by buying merchandise and tickets to the games.  Running the score up is just what fans like to see when a team is struggling, because it makes the game exciting instead of watching your team get blown out of the water.  When fans get to see this every once in a while they will buy more tickets to the game and once they get into the stadium they will buy more merchandise to support their team.  So running the score up is important for weaker teams that have nothing to lose.
So is Steve Spurrier guilty? What about Bobby Bowden? Neither is the correct answer.  Both coaches along with others that are accused of running the score up are just merely trying to have a solid program and to bring money to a school.  It is what secures their job for many years to come and that is what everyone wants.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0002.1>

	Gender role stereotyping is prominent in American culture, and revolves around the traditionalists view that men should dominate the world of commerce, while women rear children and order home life.  Over the years, the question of whether American culture should maintain distinct genre identities has risen.  I have come to the conclusion that for psychological, sociological and economic reasons, the culture should maintain gender identitites, but only to a certain extent.
	The stereotyped male image would have a man as being strong, courageous, self-reliant, and the backbone of the family.  On the other hand, a woman would be femine.  Meaning gentle, emotional, sensitive, loving, and her future plans revolving around her husband and children.  These so called images although maybe pleasant to some people, are not always realistic.  For instance a man is not always the strong backbone of the family, the culture makes him out to be.  The successful business woman/single mother may however be the backbone of the family, providing both emotional and financial support.
	Having the typical image is advantageous in creating role models for growing boys, so they learn to be strong, and know how to provide both moral and financial support for their famimlies.  But this unfortunately puts alot of pressure on men, as they aspire to get through college, get the best jobs with good salaries, they may then become so preoccupied with their job and success, that they neglect their families and become enstranged from them.  This is clearly the case in Warren Farrell's book "Why men are the way they 'are'", in which Ralph admits that he worked so hard to provide for his family, that he lost touch with them.
The other disadvantage of having an ideal male image reflects the issue of sensitivity in men.  According to William Masters a social scientist, school age boys are generally expected to show mascularity by demonstrating physical competence and bravery, and are criticized for showing fear or emotions afterall, big boys don't cry.  What happens when boys mistakenly show traces of any sensitivity? They are ridiculed and become the primary concern of psychiatrist, as they think <*>.  These research evaluations have negative psychological and sociological effects on boys as they become afraid to show emotions, so bottle up all their feelings which is damaging to the soul, and,,Ieadig-.to dysfunctional behaviour.
Having ideal female images can be advantageous too, as girls learn to take care of their families, thereby creating closely bonded families and well brought up children.  But some mothers are not happy with their housewife jobs, and get bored, frustrated and dissatisfied with their lives.  The very few women who went to college ended up dropping out to get married for fear of too much education being a bar to marriage <R>.  Due to the cultures idea of what women should be, their success is determined by their good marriages.  Women feel obliged to stay in bad marriages inspite of the deteriorating situation they face.  Betty Friedan a feminist organizer concluded from her psychological research, that women who were defined completely as wives and mothers began to lose all sense of who they were, and had no personalities.
The negative psychological effects on women results from women's misconception that they are abnomal if they do not derive satisfaction from their routine household jobs, which makes them conclude that they are less of a woman.  If women are allowed to set goals of higher education, and pursue careers without being judge as bad wives or unfit mothers, they would be happier and more independent.  Due to the woman*s role as,mother, in some cultures she is made to feel incomplete if she is sterile, and may even be rejected by her husband and in-laws.  The traditionalist female image also has damaging effects according to Friedan in her shocking tale of a woman dying of cancer who refused a life saving drug because the side effects were unfemine <R>.  Psychologist have also conceded that womans' role in the house negatively affects women, as their study of housewives showed that these women suffered feelings of desperation, and they termed this condition "the housewives syndrome" <R>.
According to Katha Poilit a poet in her article the "Smurfette principle", preschool culture also has to change as it exemplifies the male and female ideal roles.  Poilit feels that <*>.
I feel that both genders should work for financial stability of the family, because what happens when the father suddenly dies is that the family goes through a stress phase, and the mother is forced to work anyway.  Unfortunately she lacks the necessary job skills and finds securing a job extremely difficult.
In conclusion, the American culture should allow both men and women to be who they want-, are or choose to be , and not have to aspire to fit into the traditionalist defination of who they shoud be.  If a man is sensitive, he should not be ridiculed, and if a woman wants to pursue a career, she should be allowed to do so.  Afterall for such a country that fights for freedom of liberty, speech etc, it should also give the individual the freedom of self-actualization.


<R>

<ICLE-US-SCU-0003.1>

As humans we belong to the Phylum Choradata never veering off our structure until we are in the Genus of Homo sapiens.  Then we use subclass or ethnicities (black, white; rich, poor; male or female) by act of coercion.  This coercion whether it began as a struggle for dominance between two or more ethnicities or not, has invoked stereotypes of each, causing an individual to expect a traditional cause and effect as well as a pre-sought expectation for themselves.  Between the struggle of man and woman our history has broadcasted the man as being the dominant figure in a world built for both.  In Betty Friedan's "The Problem That Has No Name" and "Ralph's Story" by Warren Farrel, the topic is not superiority, but the choices that the individuals are expected to make.
In Ralph´s Story" and "The Problem That Has No Name"  both the male and female components realize after-the-fact that they were presented with unforseen consequences to what seemed logical choices in their lives.  These stories also correlate a generic comparison for person that have reflected on my life.
In "Ralph's Story", Ralph goes through a self awareness process where he realizes that even though he had choices in his life, he had no choice. with Ralph's preconceived idea of what would benefit his family (when acquired) monetarily, he had no choice but to drop baseball for college.  When Ralph had the choice of being a social work lawyer or a corporate business lawyer, he had no real choice, he had to become a business lawyer to prove
himself in the legal world.  Ralph never saw the 'big picture, just the means by which to get there (568).
In "The Problem That Has No Name", the women interviewed had chosen to have several children and stay at home to cook and clean, not because that was their ideal choice , but because that was the normal characteristic for women and they chose to be standard norm with no deviation.  Through a massing guilt, of subconscious resentment for what they call life, blaming themselves as individuals for their suppression <R>.
The consequences for their decisions were always nested deep within the individual.  In my experiences, I have grown up in an age where a career man and a career woman have become necessities in a household.  However, members of my family and other generations are new to this.  My father has strong comparative characteristics to "Ralph's Story", and my mother and aunt have characteristics of the women interviewed in  "The Problem That Has No Name."
Ralph and my father have spent the vital years of their family life working, doing what seemed right.  They are both successful at what they worked at, and they both have no friends except for work acquaintances.
My mother and my aunt, are from the same generation of newly formed career moms.  I remember my mother as house-wife and her persistent down-trodden ways.  Now she is a single mother devoted to raising her children and being successful at her work place.  My aunt said <*>. She now has been at Southern Bell for 30 years and is now divorced without any children.  Most of my family is the product
of the same choice with no choices.
I have sympathy for those affected negatively by societies narrowness and persistent ways.  For I too have been subject and controlled by my choices.  Even though I have always believed in the equality of man and woman, I have also believed in the strength of togetherness of the family.  With all the changing economic and social ways, I hope we don't regret future changes.  The only thing I have decided , to this date, to do is achieve some level of happiness.  However, this is also what the people in the two stories were trying to achieve.

<R>

<ICLE-US-SCU-0004.1>

Over the years, too much emphasis has been put on distinct gender identities.  It was once thought that men could have only certain identifying characteristics and, likewise, that women could have only certain identifying characteristics.  Today, however, stereotypical behavior is becoming a phenomenon of the past. We, as an ever changing society, should abolish distinct gender identities and recognize the fact that distinct male and female identities can be prevalent in either gender."Distinct gender identity" is not a common phrase and, therefore, requires explanation.  Over the years, traditionalists have stereotyped the male gender to be <*>.  Likewise, women have also been stereotyped to be <*>.  Each set of qualities or characteristics was thought to be possessed only by the specific identified gender.  It was also thought to be abnormal if one gender possessed qualities or characteristics of the opposite gender.
Tradition has played an important role concerning distinct gender identities.  Today, however, some women are thought to possess male gender qualities and some men are thought to possess female gender qualities.  The fact that a man possesses feminine gender qualities does not mean that he is less masculine.  Likewise, the fact that a woman possesses male gender qualities does not mean that she is less feminine.  William H. Masters, Virginia E. Johnson, and Robert C. Kolodny, noted researchers, have found that today masculine and feminine traits are looked at separately and that they <*>.  Stated differently, a woman who is aggressive and competitive can be quite feminine. Also, a man who is sensitive and loving may also be very masculine.
Traditionally, women were taught that their greatest goals in life were to be a wife and then a mother.  Betty Friedan, a feminist organizer and writer, states that <*>.  Many women became unhappy with their lives as a wife and mother and wondered if this was all that life had to offer.  These women had always been taught that their distinct gender identity only included traits commonly found in a wife and mother; however, they were not fulfilled.  These women were led to believe that if they were not happy fulfilling this role that something must be wrong with them <R>.  As a result, they were psychologically affected by their unhappiness and also by their feelings of a lack of self-fulfillment.  In this instance, by abolishing the distinct gender identity, there would be no psychological impact and, therefore, a more well-adjusted female would exist.
Men, traditionally, were looked upon to be the aggressor of the two genders.  Moreover, they were considered very successful if they exuded male gender traits to an extreme degree.  This, in and of itself, placed a tremendous psychological burden on the male gender to succeed.  Warren Farrell, a noted psychologist, recounts a story in which the main character pays a high price for adhering to gender-based codes of success <R> . In this narrative, Ralph, the main character, states <*>.  Unfortunately, the male gender identity requires that a man be competitive and aggressive. if these traits were abolished or became non-distinct, multi-gender characteristics, men would be relieved of this pressure and, therefore, the psychological burden would be lifted.  This would, in turn, provide for a more healthy male gender.
With the divorce rate escalating, there are more and more single parent families.  There are women who are having to play the role of mother and father.  At the same time, there are also men who are having to play the role of mother and father.  Women, who are faced with the task of being a single parent, are forced to be strong, courageous, dependent, and self-reliant.  Even though these are strictly male gender identity characteristics, these women are forced to emanate these qualities.  Likewise, men, who are faced with the task of being a single parent, are forced to be sensitive and loving.  Even though these are distinct female gender identity characteristics, a single father would be forced to radiate these qualities in order to raise a healthy, well-adjusted child. it would be ridiculous to think that men should not provide these qualities in order to raise their children just because the male gender identity does not permit them to be sensitive and loving.  Likewise, it would also be ridiculous to think that women should not be strong, courageous, dependant, and self-reliant just because the female gender identity does not include these traits.
In today's society, distinct gender identities have proven themselves to be useless and also harmful.  The psychological effects, due to stereotypical behavior, have been determined to be destructive.  Moreover, women in the work place and single-parent women have been compelled to be aggressive and competitive on order to succeed.  Also, single fathers have found it necessary to be loving and sensitive in order to be a good parent.  Distinct gender identities have become obsolete in today's society and should, therefore, be eliminated.


<ICLE-US-SCU-0005.1>

In a constantly changing world, it is important for both genders to have a firm grasp on just what it means to be a man or a woman.  This establishment of gender identity should begin at the earliest age possible.  Masters and Johnson say children begin to recognize gender roles by age three. (548) Children should be taught that there is a core of behavior that makes them boys or girls but, there are other types of behavior that is open to change.  The message children are given now is a stereotype that has been the root of many problems they encounter later in life.  Men and women today need to understand and respect the fact that they are different.  They communicate in different styles.  This difference is what makes life exciting.  Gender roles, like relationships, must remain dynamic.  People must know and be comfortable with who they are before they can pursue a meaningful career, relationship, or anything else that matters.
To achieve a well adjusted, gender relazed, adulthood society must ammend the method and the message we are giving our children.  Katha Pollit does an excellent job of illustrating how television, one of the more influential sources for children, is giving kids a skewed start in shaping their ideas of what's important in being a boy or a girl.  In her essay "The Smurfette Principle", she cites. many painful examples of how little ones receive a terribly distorted picture of gender roles.  Although the method takes on many forms, the message is the same <*>.
 	Pollit pints out that even the more enlightened Public Broadca stations engage in male gender bias.
Starting girls into life's roller coaster ride with the idea that boys lives are more important than their's is a tremendous disadvantage.  It's a bad message delivered at a bad time through a bad medium.  Even the best parents allow their children to watch Saturday morning cartoons where, as Pollit cites, the most egregious errors occur.  Parents allow their kids to watch these cartoons for two reasons; first, because they watched them when they were kids and second, because parents are not interested in justice, they just want quiet.  It is important to note that these bad signals have an adverse effect on boys as well as girls.  Pollit contends:that the message is more straight forward for the boys. 

Now that our children are off to a wonderful start they are ready for adulthood.  The effects of this twisted gender identity beginning are made evident in two startling stories of problems people encounter when they realize they have spent their lives doing something they don't like.  "Ralph's Story" by Warren Ferrell is a scarry confession of a successful lawyer who has neglected his family and himself.  He hates the person he has become.  Ralph's case is one of mistaken identity.  His idea of what a man is supposed to be is wrong.  Wrong because Ralph lives his life the way society tells him to, instead of doing the things that make him happy or a better sponse.  Betty Frieden's excerpt on what women were going through in the 1960's is similar to Ferrell's essay.  Friedon writes how women homemakers live a life that others expect of them.  These twisted exogenic pressures deny women of any real choice in life.  Both of these stories are examples of how women and men fall into stereotypical gender roles without any curiosity.  They do not ask themselves if a different lifestyle would make them happy.  They fail to confront that great fear of the unknown.  It is difficult to face your family and friends with a confession of your life of unhappiness.  On the other hand, its easy to do the things everyone expects of your gender.  Society's semiotics on how each gender is supposed to behave are everywhere.  One cannot go to work, watch T.V., listen to the radio, or even drive in your car without being exposed to clear and definitive signs of massed produced gender identity.
Fredian, Ferrell and Pollitt do an excellent job of exposing the problems of stereotypical gender roles.  Their approach is that gender rolds are needed, they just need to be ammended to fit in a changing society.  Dr. John Grey, a Califorian marriage counselor, is trying to ammend these roles.  His book "Men are From Mars, Women are From Venue" goes a long way in helping both sexes understand that it is not only o.k. to be different, but it's exciting.  Grey's planet metophor enriches his piont of men's and women's different style of communication.  He also promotes the concept of gender roles being open to change.  The people cited in Friedan's and Ferrell's essay were static.  Grey calls this man going into their caves and women wanting to talk. (29) Here Grey's metophor explains and validates how different genders react under pressure.  He explains that if both parties learn to accept the others methods their own lives will become better.
All the experts cited in this essay understand the importance of separate gender identity.  This is evident by the fact that each writer even bothered to bring these problems to light.  Each writer is saying that both sexes should be free to establish their own role in society, without cumbersome and misguided pressures from a political correct world.  The best way to achieve this goal is to begin changing the message we give our children.  Children need to know men and women walk, talk, drive, and grow in different ways.  They also need to learn that men and women are not limited by their sex.  Either type must be allowed to dream of achieving any goal that they can create in their respective minds.  The successful role model that children can draw strength from is not going to be just Dad anymore, but mom as well.



<ICLE-US-SCU-0006.1>

Many men and women make the mistake of letting their lives be ruled by the advice of others, causing themselves much soul-searching and agonising uncertainty over which direction their lives should take.  They are particularly vulnerable as young people being ,pressured into making decisions as to what they want to do the rest of their  lives. Sometimes they already have a good idea of what they would like to make of their lives, but it may be impractical, or at least others tell them that it is. All too often, they choose a course because it is rational and erected of them.  But what if it's wrong?
A generation ago women were advised by Betty Friedan in her very popular book, "The Feminine Mystique", that they were effectively wasting their lives if they didn't do more than stay home, clean house, raise the children, and keep the man of the house in clean shirts.  <*> wrote Friedan.  Yet, "The Problem That Has No Name," (an excerpt from "The Feminine Mystique") described women who fretted about their lives and wished for something more, but they were not sure what. Feminists, following Friedan's logic, extolled the glamour, self-enhancement, and personal satisfaction of pursuing a career. Many women followed this advice and at the same time did their best to have a successful marriage and be a perfect mother.  In the process, society witnessed the evolution of the career woman who worked from 9 to 5 each day, then raced home after picking up the kids from nursery school or a babysitter, prepared supper, listened to homework of older children, put them to bed, and then tackled some housework.  Of course, most men helped around the house.  But many women ended up dissatisfied with their career, their marriage, and a good part of their whole life.  Many felt that they didn't do a good job with any part of their life, because each part demanded more than they could give.  Some women, with insight enough to realize they couldn't do it all at once, put off having children until their careers were established, only to discover that their "biological clocks" had run out of time before they were ready to interrupt their careers for a family.
This is not to say that women are the only ones caught in the career trap. There is a lot of correlation between the woman who  is dissatisfied with her life as wife/mother/homemaker/care person and the man dissatisfied with his life as breadwinner/successful worker/husband/father.  Ralph, as described in "Ralph's Story" by Warren Farrell, and others like him, are likely to find that they spend their whole life trying to get ahead in a job and make a good living for the family, while in the process losing the respect and affection of the very ones they're working for.  And along the way, the life the man would have preferred to live has faded into impossibility along with the addition of wrinkles and gray hair.  Ralph confessed <*>.
"Ralph's Story" was written in the last decade and is more contemporary than Betty Friedan's work, but the similarity is unmistakable.  Men and women, then as now, are trapped by the expectations of others.  A woman today, if she pursues a career as expected by her peers, still is obliged to make a home, oversee the care of the children, and be a nurturing wife and mother.
The alternative, if a woman chooses not to follow the herd, is to suffer a harder life by eliminating a part of the whole (not be a mother but choose a career vs. be a mother and disregard or postpone a career).  Is it a harder life to forgo motherhood? Many young women would say definitely yes, even while enjoying the prosperity and prestige that usually accompany a career.  Yet if a woman decides on motherhood alone, the family suffers the loss of her income while gaining her undivided attention as a mother and homemaker.  The jury's still out as to whether that's a real or imagined hardship, but today a woman is almost reouired to work outside the home in order to make ends meet, never mind the extras, whether there are children to consider or not.  It has become an accepted way of life for most families.
A woman who decides to stay home and raise a family often suffers in a more subtle way: Society, since the time of Friedan's rise to fame, wonders "what else" a wife and mother does with her time.  No one would come right out and say that motherhood is not a valuable occupation, but, the implication is that she should be doing something else with her life, too.
Ralph decided early on to follow the advice of others supposedly wiser than he, giving up his dream of becoming a baseball player.  He later made career choices that increasingly took him away from his family.  He told himself he was providing his wife and children with the things they wanted, but in reality he ended up depriving them of himself.  He denied his own deepest wishes because others (whether individuals or society as a whole) felt he should do it and he allowed himself to be led. Men of my acquaintance have been required to travel on business, spending days and weeks away from their families, only to discover that the children have grown up without them and are strangers under the same roof.  Also, the wife, cherished and hopeful for 'the good life', as a newlywed, now is a stranger and may very well be resentful of all the time apart.
The tragedy of the wrong choice was  as likely to happen a generation ago as a decade ago - nothing has changed.    What is the worst that would have happened if Ralph had become a baseball player?  He may have been weeded out during the first season of play - a blow to his ego, perhaps, but not a tragedy. And at least he would have given it a try while he was still young enough to choose another career if he failed.  What if Ralph had taken the path of becoming a social-work lawyer as he wanted, instead of becoming a corporate lawyer? His career might not have been as lucrative, and perhaps his family would have had to settle for a more modest house and forgo the country club membership - a hardship, yes.  On the other hand, Ralph would have had the personal satisfaction of helping others and possibly would have earned more love and respect from his family in the long run.  What's not to like about a man who does good for others and feels good about himself while doing it?
What if a young woman chooses motherhood for the formative years of her children's lives and then, once the children are in school, begins her career later in life? It seems to me she would have gained much and lost little.  A modern woman can even work out of her home with a computer tine-in to the office, as an example of a way around the problem.
Today, men are realizing that a life sacrificed to the corporation is not worth losing a family over.  And women, worn to a frazzle by trying to "have it all" are realizing that it's all right to be a mother first and let the career take a minor role or vice versa. Even so, fear women are willing to risk  society's disapproval by admitting that they actuality prefer childcare and housework over a career, and few men want to risk the business world's scorn by devoting a life to good works rather than become a. corporate cog-in-the-wheel. Unfortunately, while society pays lip service to these noble endeavors, there is little encouragement to those who choose such paths.
There has to be a middle road that could be more happily traveled. It's up to each man or woman
to search his or her own heart and decide the best road to take.
				

<ICLE-US-SCU-0001.2>

The Confederate battle flag has been flying high atop the South Carolina State Capitol building for many years now.  It holds many different beliefs for different groups of people.  Some view it as a symbol of pride and a heritage that should not be forgotten.  Others may view it as a flagrant sign of hatred and many years of racism.  No matter what one believes that the flag means, they should agree as a group that the battle flag should not be flying over the South Carolina State Capitol.
I agree that the flag is a sign of heritage for some people.  I agree because I am one of those people who think that the Confederate flag reflects on my history.  I was brought up to respect Southern tradition and way.  Part of that Southern tradition is the Confederate flag.  The South does have a very rich heritage that should be remembered and observed, but not by keeping the Confederate battle flag flying above the state house for all to see.
I have repeatedly referred to the "Confederate battle flag" and the
"Confederate flag." There is a very big difference.  The flag that is currently over the state house is the battle flag.  It is the flag that is red with blue bars, with stars in them, crossing through the center of it.  In my mind that stands for the South fighting to keep slavery.  It is the flag that the South would carry into battle.  It does not represent the southern way of life, but rather short bursts of fury raging against those who wanted to do away with slavery.
The real Confederate flag is much different.  It is the one with three large bars through it, two white and one red.  In the corner of this flag is a large box with stars that form a circle.  This flag means much more than just fighting.  That flag stands for a way of life.  The real flag was the flag that was decided upon to represent the South and what it stood for.  When the South decided to become independent, they decided to take on a certain way 

of life.  This "way of life" was one that was cherished by those who resided in the South.  The way of life has changed a great deal since that time but many values and beliefs are still held sacred by true southerners.  The real Confederate flag should be flying over the state house instead of the one that is there now.
One should not argue that the battle flag stands for heritage not hatred.  The battle flag stands for nothing but racism and hatred.  The only heritage that is represented in the battle flag is that of hate and fighting for all the wrong reasons.  The battle flag should be brought down so that we, as a state, can show that we will no longer tolerate the outdated theories that are instilled in it.
Many people do not realize why the battle flag was first flown above the state house.  Some think that the flag has been flying since the Civil war, or even since South Carolina succeeded from the union.  These people are wrong.  The battle flag was first flown in the year 1964.  This was the year that the civil rights movement started.  Actually, the flag was set up the day after the civil rights movement started.  This clearly shows that the battle flag stands for nothing more than hatred.  This is probably the single largest reason why the battle flag should be brought down.
South Carolina is sending people away just by letting the battle flag remain over the capitol building.  Many people not from the South do not understand the southern way of life, simply because they have never lived it before.  These people cannot be expected to understand it.  South Carolina should let them experience it for themselves instead of letting them see the battle flag and automatically think that we still believe in what the South fought for.  If the state of South Carolina wants to show that they still believe in what the southern way of life stands for then they should bring down the battle flag and let the real flag fly in its place.  Along with the real flag over the capitol 

building should be an explanation of the real flag and why it is flying.  South Carolina should explain that this flag does stand for a rich heritage.  It is not a sign of hatred but merely a symbol of something that South Carolinians hold dear to them.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0002.2>	

For many years college has been regarded as being a maturing station.  It was supposed to build on what your parents taught you and prepare for the real world and beyond.  With all of the rules and regulations it has makes it hard for one to mature in such an environment.  It often feels as if there are eyes watching over you at all times.  You feel like you are walking on egg shells.  There is a rule for everything.  It is as if your parents still live at home. The rules don't give you a chance to make a mistake so that you can learn from it.  Resident halls are where your biggest rules and regulations lie. They try to take your parent's place.  Because of the parenting rolls they play, they have the most problems when it comes to breaking the rules.
Resident halls don't seem to give you enough space to build responsibility.  I won't say grow up or become an adult, because those are qualifications that you deal with on your own. The halls have a rule for everything you do.  One major rule is the visitation policy.  Most policies restrict visitors of the opposite sex in the buildings where students live.  If there is no visitation at all, guest of the opposite sex have to be out of the rooms at certain time.  For example, the policy at some University of South Carolina dorms state that guest of the opposite sex can be in your room from ten o'clock in the morning until two o'clock in the morning.  With such a restrictive policy, several resident halls act as governing parents.  I thought that when you go away to college you leave your parents at home.  For the amount of money spent to live on campus, students should be able to live as they wanted to. I know you think that the time in the example seems like a long time, but why
should the student be restricted? Most of the time your guest have to come from some place far and they want to spend the entire day with you.  If they arrive at nine they have to wait an hour before they can come up and see you.  It feels to them as if they have wasted their time.  They did all of that traveling for nothing.  There are often times when you and your guest go out and you return about midnight or later and you expect to spend some time with them, but before you know it it's time for them to leave.  Heaven forbid that they are tired and want to spend the night, they have to leave anyway.  When they leave you are worried that they may have an accident because they are driving while they are tired.  If something was to happen you would feel as if it was all your fault.  But if they were to stay mom and dad from downstairs would call to remind you that your guest had to be out of the building.  That's ridiculous! I understand that the policies are to protect the other residents and guest, but nine times out of ten when a male and female are together disturbance to others is the last thing on their minds.
To restrict a person on what time a visitor can see them is like you are trying to violate their rights.  You are supposed to feel at home in the resident halls.  How are you supposed to feel at home when you can't do the same things you were doing at home? I understand you maybe thinking, what about the person you share a room with? Do they mind if people are there at all times of the night and that they may even spend the night? That's what the roommate contract is for.  At several universities roommates have a chance to voice there opinions about what their room should be used for.  At USC each person and their roommate has to sit down and discuss what they agreed upon and what they disagreed upon where the room and their belongings were concerned.  Each person signed it and dated it and they both had to take it to their resident advisor.  Atleast that way everyone had a
little choice on how they lived.
The visitation policy should not be focused on the gender issue, but in actuality it is a big part of it.  The rules and regulations aren't fair to males and heterosexual residents.  Not every male is a rapist, and it should not be just limited to men.  Rare as it may seem, there are females that are capable of the same crime.  In many female dorms it is made to seem that every male in the building is out to 
hurt you. That isn't true in many cases.  The rules are there to protect the guest, but I don't see the same warnings posted in male dorms.  Throughout several female dorms there are warnings about rapist.  When you go to the male dorms you don't see pin ups about rape.  Men are rape also, if not by other males by females.  They should post warning signs everywhere.  Rape isn't just a female problem.  Here at USC, guest of the opposite sex must be signed in, given a pass, escorted at all times, and have to be out of the building by two in the morning.  This gives gays, lesbians, and bisexuals an advantage.  Their guest aren't required to go through that process because they are of the same sex.  For example, a lesbian resident has her lover over for a visit.  When two o'clock rolls around she doesn't have to leave, because she is a female in an all female dorm it is assumed that she lives there.  No matter what the deal is she doesn't have to leave.  Whereas a heterosexual resident in the same hall has her boyfriend over, he has to leave when the clock strikes two.  If they want to be fair the policy should be for all guests.  When it's all broken down it's nothing but discrimination.
Another rule in resident halls are the quiet hours. They are almost as worse as the visitation policy.  At USC you are suppose to be quiet from ten a night until ten in the morning.  'Think about it, those are your loudest hours of the day.  I know that the quiet hours are there to respect the other residents, but I feel that if I am being too loud my neighbor will tell me. This is also a great policy for during the
week, but for the weekends it's outrageous.  The weekends are suppose to be the times that you have fun.  How are you supposed to have fun if you are always asked to tone it down? First they tried to control your visitation now they are trying to control the noise level.  What is too loud? When am I supposed to know that I am too loud.  What maybe loud to you, may not be loud for me.  It is hard to control the noise level in resident halls because the walls are very thin.  If the rules on the noise level can't be done away with they could atleast change the policy for the weekends.
With all of the hassle students on campus deal with they might as well live at home.  The rules and regulations in resident halls are worse than your parents.  Just like mom and dad they try to govern your life.  College should be known for what it used to be, a place where you could get a taste of the real world.  It seems as if the colleges today are trying to become more strict with their rules because they have always been the ones blamed when students drop out or get kicked out.  Just like being known as being a maturing station, some people also consider college to be one big party.  I guess with those contradicting views colleges have to be careful.  With all the rules they have it's hard for you to grow and become a mature and responsible student.  When it comes to rules and regulations you have to be fair.  When they are made they should take the students opinions into consideration.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0003.2>


In 1994, Susan Smith, a Union, South Carolina mother, chose to end the life of her two young sons by loading the two little boys into her car and rolling the car into a nearby lake.
Several months have passed since Susan Smith was tried for the murder of her two sons.  Some people are very relieved and others are very shocked that Susan Smith did not recieve the death penalty.  The news media and many individuals have stated facts as well as opinions, I would like to express my opinion on the justness of the sentence handed down to Susan Smith.
Susan Smith has had a very disturbing life as a child.  Her parents divorced and when she was six years old her father committed suicide.  She attempted suicide at least once as a teenager.  At the age of fifteen years old her stepfather molested her and continued to sleep with her after she was married.  Also while she was married she had an affair with the son of her boss.  She obviously cared deeply for this boyfriend and was extremely distressed when he dumped her.  Her boyfriend dumped her and gave her the reason that there were things in her life that did not suit him and they should end their relationship. 
       It is obvious to me that Susan Smith's behavior in marriage was not endowed with logical mental coherence nor did she have good parental models to follow.  Smith assumed that the boys were the reason the affair ended.  A psychiatrist told the jury that Susan Smith had a long history of depression that led to her inability to make rational choices.  If she had been thinking rationally as a mother she would have given her husband custody of her children.  These past behavior patterns are a few reasons why the Supreme Court did not impose the death penalty.  Instead of sentencing Susan Smith to death, they sentenced her to life in prision.
I think that the jury made the right decision by not giving Susan Smith the death penalty.  Death would have been quick, easy, and more economical.  Susan Smith is now living with a guilty conscience, a sentence that is far greater than death.  She will have to live knowing that she is the reason her two sons, Michael and Alex Smith are gone forever.  She will always live with a hideous picture etched in the back of her mind, the picture of her car sinking to the bottom of a lake with her two helpless sons sitting in the back seat.  She will also have to sit in the lonely jail cell and hear the two small voices she once heard each day before the incident, the two voices that were pleading and crying for help as the boys were trapped inside the car.  Every morning she will wake up and see herself as a cold-hearted murderer instead of the caring and loving mother she once was.
Susan Smith's least fear should be having to face all of her cell mates and the
citizens of Union, South Carolina.  The criticism and anger that has arisen is enough to scare anyone and to assure Susan Smith that she is not safe anywhere.  Her greatest fear should be God´s wrath.
Susan Smith let herself down as well as let many others down that loved and cared for her.  She will always have to live with the nightmare she created but as a Christian I know that she can ask God for forgiveness and He will forgive her.  It is not our position to take Susan Smith's life away from her whether we as humans think that she has done something so terribly wrong that she deserves it.  It very well could be that her life experiences can help others to identify irrational human behaviors and offset the economic losses saving the lives of other children.  In the Bible God says <*>.  This is the sixth commandment of the Ten Commandments that God gave Moses on Mount Sinai.
	When and if Susan Smith asks God for forgiveness, she will be forgiven.  He will guide her and support her as she lives life day to day.  He can make her scandalous life a testimony to help others headed in the same direction.  Until she is willing to open up her heart to God she will be the same sick woman that she was when she drowned her two sons.  If she opens up her heart to God then she will spend eternity in heaven.  The Bible also states that <*>.  Susan Smith is entitled to this opportunity just as well as any other person on earth.  She is faced with making the choice of seeing her sons again in heaven or receiving a punishment worse than the rest of her life in prision, and that is spending eternity in hell.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0004.2>

What do Cindy Crawford, Kate Moss, Naomi Cambell, and Kristy Turlington have in common? All of these women are extremely beautiful, all are top notch models, but most importantly all are understood to be the "perfect and ideal" women.  The 1990's base these standards or expectations on every woman, and every woman who doesn't resemble Barbie is perceived as imperfect.
The media plays a large part in the altering of a real woman's appearance.  Society and media shouldn't persuade us as to what true beauty is.  From the beginning of adolecense, girls are faced with implications from the news, television, and magazines to have the perfect body, skin, and hair.  Because of the standards that society place on women, teenagers, and young girls, there are many disorders which alter these females' state of mind, health, and body.  Disorders so severe that there is such a strong dissatisfaction with one's appearance that they interfere with living healthy.

Of course this problem is not the model's fault, they are doing there job of being beautiful.  But media places such a strain on being the "perfect" women.  The average model is 5'9" tall, weighs 1 10 pounds, and her measurements are 34-24-34.  Only one percent of all women ages eighteen to seventy fit into this category.  The average women is 5'4" tall, weighs 145 pounds, and her measurements are 36-28-38.  If we took Barbie and made her into a real woman, she would be 5'10" tall, would weigh 105 pounds, her measurements would be 34-22-34, and would fit into a perfect size 1.

I understand that every woman may not look at the famous models and want to resemble them, but I admit that I am the opposite -- I only wish that I could be as flawless as Cindy Crawford.  But it is ridiculous to try to fit myself into her measurements, and weight.  And yet women everywhere include themselves in disorders such as Anorexia and Bulimia, and use severe measures of beautification processes to try (most times with failure) to enhance their own image.
With Anorexia, ninety-five percent of all cases are women, and one woman out of every one hundred is an anorexic.  They are obsessed with food, their body, and with being unrealistically thin. Above all of this though, is that there is no cure.  Bulimia includes binging and purging large quantities of food.  Five to twenty percent of all college women suffer from Bulimia, and inhibit symptoms of erosion of mouth, bones, and tooth enwnel.  Plastic surgery is on an increase these days, it seems that everywhere you look, girls as young as fourteen are having breast implants, or facial operations, what they don't realize though, is that implants or tucks don't last forever, and are a leading cause of Cancer.  Liposuction is used to remove fat, but is a very dangerous procedure that could lead to bleeding to death, at the slightest mistake made by a surgeon.  Bogus beauty products are used by women as well, chemicals that break down skin, and bone are used on the body. There are many girls and women that must wear dentures because the methods in which they used to whiten their teeth only ruined them.  Why? Why should we put ourselves through this? Should we let society develop what our image of what beauty is? Because of all of the pressures to be beautiful that are placed on women, we are only making ourselves unhealthy, and in the long run fatally ill.

Television and magazine ads display the beauty products or diets in a manner in which we women think that we need them.  I mean if the model in the commercial can look like that because she uses that certain product -- so can I (yeah right.) I believe that females are given a false sense of hope or expectation, because I know that how ever much makeup I put on, I will never look like Christie Brinkley -- my body was just not made that way! It angers and discourages me to think that young and old women are being used as ploys for the beauty industry to make money off of our insecurities.  They know that we think our hips are too big, so they come out with a fantastic machine that does nothing for the betterment of the body, only a decrease of money in our wallets.

Women everywhere, of all sizes face the influences of the media and from society to be perfect.  It has been proven that obese women are less likely to be married.  Although they may be as qualified as any other woman, they earn 6,000 dollars less every year.  They are ten percent more likely to live in poverty and  experience job discrimination due to their size.  Most obese women have a low self esteem and low level of their self image.  Typically larger women are stereotyped as lazy, stupid, and that they contain no self control.


I believe that every woman is beautiful.  True beauty comes from within - so why can't the media and society place higher standards on personality, education, and 
inner beauty. Once we realize that beauty isn't everything, we can begin to live healthy, both mentally and physically.  Girls, teenagers, and women everywhere must realize that you must respect yourself before anyone else can respect you, but beauty is something that comes from inside, and shines through onto the outside.  Any wealthy women could go to a plastic surgeon, and explain what she wants to look like, but we all can understand and be truly happy with ourselves.  I am not condemning self improvement, but do we  have to go to such extreme measures, just to please the perceived idea of beauty? Do we have to go through the torment, and put our bodies through such terrible things? What about our states of mind -- these drastic actions can only be detrimental to the ways in which we think. I think not.  We don't have to let society coerce their opinions of beauty onto us, we don't have to let the media make us believe that we're not good enough, or pretty enough.  We all just need to understand that every one of us have qualities that make us beautiful, and neither the media or society have anything to do with that.


<ICLE-US-SCU-0005.2>

Some people think that action needs to be taken on drugs.  Most published works are about decreasing the drug use.  Drugs are here to stay whether anyone likes it or not.  It would be nearly impossible to completely eliminate all of the different drug uses.  People will always find some kind of over-the-counter drug or inhalants, to get high off of.  The legalization of some drugs like marijuana would improve many different aspects of society.
Health problems seem to be a concern as far as legalization goes.  Issues such as permanent damage to the brain and other parts of the anatomy.  The fact is that people are going to use drugs anyway, so why not regulate the pureness of some of these drugs.  A majority of drugs relate to or have deadly effects.  Most people do not see marijuana as a drug.  They view it like cigarettes.  Marijuana is probably one of the lease harmful of drugs.  The side effects of marijuana is not apparent as some other drugs.  I do not feel as strongly about legalizing crack cocaine as others.  There are some other things legal today, which can have potentially deadly results.  Lung cancer from cigarette smoke, liver failure from the abuse of alcohol, and the potential loss of teeth and gum damage from chewing tobacco.
	If marijuana among other drugs were legalized, should there be an age limitation? If children obeyed the law, it would be a good idea.  However, they do not.  An age limit would probably just encourage kids to see if they could
still get drugs.  Today, kids like to take risks even though there are enormous consequences when caught.  Sometimes, I feel there is a need to eliminate the drinking and cigarettes age law.  I do not know of many people under the age of twenty-one and eighteen that can not get a hold of some alcohol beverages and cigarettes and other tobacco products when they want to.  At my high school the people who were caught smoking underage received the same punishment as the people old enough to smoke.  People will start these habits at young ages, even though it is illegal.  It also starts kids to be interested in fake identification cards.  The product of having these cards is illegal, but it does not stop anyone.

Most violent crimes stimulate from selling illicit drugs.  People are always trying to sell and buy drugs, which leads to people having guns for protection.
The legalization of marijuana among other drugs, would keep some people out of the streets
Jails are over crowded as it is.  If marijuana was legalized, then jails would have more room for those who pose a danger to society.  The police could worry more about solving more murder cases than a lot of these drug cases.  Most people convicted of drug crimes are convicted because of intent to distribute the drugs to other citizens.  If marijuana were sold in the stores, there probably would be a huge profit.
Hopefully, the number of drug users would decrease.  At the rate it is only increasing.  Knowing that you can just buy drugs from a store, people will try to find other way to do illegal things.  Money made from selling marijuana and other drugs could be used for many different resources.  The manufacturing of these drugs could create some new jobs.  It would be a great a great opportunity for even more teenagers and adults to get off the streets.
Intravenously used drugs would not likely lead to the spread of AIDS.  Needles could be given with the purchase of the drugs.  Then, there would not be a need to share needles with anyone else, because everyone would have their own.
People are going to use drugs regardless of what anyone say.  If the government was in control, then they could regulate what and how much goes into these drugs.  They could develop some types of drugs that would get people high, but not cause as much deadly harm to peoples body.  The government could put the drug dealer off the street, because they would not be able to make any profits.  It does not take that much to produce some of these drugs, and the government could sell them cheaper than the drug dealer and put them out of business.  If people want to harm their bodies, why stop them? People have the right to do most other things.  The government claim that it is a free country, but it is not.  Someone once said that, "If the zeal to eliminate drugs leads this state and nation to forsake its ancient heritage of constitution liberty, then we will have suffered a far greater injury than drugs even inflict upon use.  Drugs injure some of us.  The loss of liberty injuries us all. (Wibotsky 17) If people want to hurt themselves, let them because they are only hurting themselves.  If you do not want to take marijuana among others and hann your body, then do not take any drugs.  All the choices are left up to you.  If somebody does not want to live on this earth, why make them?
There will always be something that can harm each individual.  Marijuana and other drugs are not going anywhere.  Whatever the governments plan had been for all these years has not worked, so why not try something new? If you can get high off of alcohol and you can get high off of marijuana but maybe faster, what is the big difference? Everyone who is using alcohol or drugs are just trying to achieve one goal, which is getting high.  If you can not stop people from using alcohol, why stop them from using marijuana and other drugs? Maybe a lot less people will get hurt trying to stop people from using marijuana and other drugs.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0006.2>


Would it not be wonderful if we could enjoy or even hold sacred the differences between men and women? Instead of viewing the enjoyment of the inherent differences between males and females as a negative part of social life, we can allow the enjoyment of the differences to increase social well.  Women and men are, of course, different physically and emotionally.  These differences are the underlining driving force of opposite sex interaction. While men and women are naturally different, the laws of the land must treat everyone equally.  With fairness alone in mind there has been a resent social mood to permanently disintegrate the sacred differences between males and females.  Men and women can enjoy there differences, especially physical differences, while remaining fair to themselves as well as remaining fair to the opposite sex.
	Recently there has been a trend to facilitate an equal playing field for both female and male athletes.  By law we should equally fund all sexes sports, but in reality some sports bring in more revenue than others.  The classic example is the relatively male sport of football in relation to women's volleyball.  At my high school I had people argue about the disproportionally funded sports.  They would not necessarily argue that volleyball should get funded equally with football, but that if the football team has the second best facilities in the state then the volleyball team should have the second best facilities.  In actuality the football team started out with the worst facilities in the state, but through hard work and years of dedication the football team built up faithful.  These faithful have spent there money to boost the football tearn and in doing so boost the football facilities.
A problem arose when it came time for a new football facility and a new volleyball facility to be constructed, but there were only funds for one or the other.  In the end the money got split between the two.  This example could be looked at as communism.  All the money was split evenly to benefit all.  The point here is that if sex was not an issue the football team would have received their money.  The fact that there are two sexes in the situation the obvious answer to the problem could not be reached.
Another problem that arises from the way we view our differences is in the entertainment industry.  The problem here is both global and local.  Locally the problem is stripjoints.  A little strip joint is typically viewed as a trashy place with trashy people.  I say a strip joint is a place were a women can go enjoy the beauty of the male body, or vise versa for the men watching women.  There is very little touching and no actual intercourse going on in these places.
Would it not be ideal to go to a strip joint after work, and then go home to your husband/wife who had just retumed from there favorite strip joint.  The husband and  wife would have a new outlook and appreciation for each other.  In this case just because a man looks at a naked women and enjoys himself does not mean that he is cheating on his wife or that he is even sexist.  He is simple enjoying the differences between his body and the opposite sexes' body.  The differences in this case actually offer an escape from day to day life.  Yet another benefit of the strip joint is the added money spent into the economy.
Globally a contrast could be drawn between male athletes and female models.  Both are, beyond any doubt, superhuman.  I often hear people saying negative things about popular models especially when they pose nude.  The problem hear is that we look up to the super athlete but look down on the super model, when both are there for our entertainment purposes.  An everyday example of this is Charles Barkley compared to Madonna.  Charles Barkley is hailed as a wonderful icon for children to respect, but Madonna is looked at as trask.  The irony here is that Charles Barkley brings with him an aura of violence, were Madonna would bring about a since of love and affection.  Madonna made it big because of her hard work and determination just as Charles Barkley made it big through years of hard work.  Of course it is important to understand that both of these individuals have natural talents.  It is important for us to be able to respect Madonna for her natural beauty just the same as we respect Charles Barkley for his basketball abilities.  We can enjoy watching Madonna seduce someone just the same as we can enjoy watching Charles Barkley slam dunk a basketball.
Some of the most popular advertisements today are Calvin Cline commercials.  In most of their commercials the have a beautiful man or women in a seductive atmosphere.  The man or women is often nude or partially nude.  These commercials work because the differences between a man and a women are fostered.  Instead of portraying the opposite sex or the admiration of the opposite sex as a negative thing the differences are scene as important reasons to buy there product.  The main point of warring cologne or perfume is to attract the opposite sex.  These commercials simply relay a scene of attracting the other sex.  There is nothing nasty or sexes about attracting the opposite sex.
Recently there has been a lot about the restaurant chain called Hooters in the news.  The basic underlining marketing strategy of Hooters is to have pretty young ladies serve fast hot wings and cold beverages.  There has been several lawsuits against Hooters recently for job discrimination.  The problem here is that Hooters is setting it's self apart from the competition by its unique marketing strategy.  Most guys do not want to have men in small outfits serving them food. This is not discrimination.  The marketing strategy can easily be reversed.  You could have a chain of restaurants with beautiful men in tight clothes serving women. It is all in the idea of having a good time.  This restaurant chain is simply tapping into our attraction of the opposite sex.  If we can learn to enjoy our differences instead of trying to make every thing into a discrimination case everything will be more harmonious.  Another thing to remember in this situation is the extra tips that these ladies receive often for just looking good.
Men and women can compete against one another in many things.  They can compete equally for a sells job or they can compete equally for a political position, but physically most men and women can not equally compete against one another.  There are exceptions, but as a general rule most men and women compete on different levels in most sports.  For example an all female team can compete very competitively with another female team, but an all male team can not compete very well with an all female team.  Now, does this make females better then males or vise versa? No, it simply makes the two different.  A more concrete example of this could be soccer teams.  Some females can play at the same level as some males, and some males can play at the level of some females, but the games are much more competitive if you have one sex against members of that same sex.  Female soccer is very competitive and male soccer is very competitive, but female soccer against male soccer is not very competitive.  Again, females are not inferior nor are males they are simply different.
For years men have been stereotyped as lusting after the opposite sex.  I say let us lust after the opposite sex. Let a women enjoy watching a Calvin Cline commercial.  Let a man enjoy going to a restaurant named after a human body part.  Open up more of these restaurants.  Maybe open one called buttocks for women. The message here is that men and women are different.  Let us enjoy these differences.  Let us be proud of our natural sex, and most importantly let us enjoy our physical and emotional differences.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0007.2>

Students, parents, and schools should recognize and reward teachers, especially high school teachers, more for the good job that they do.  Teachers who really get into their work by going an extra mile to help students in need, should be rewarded, even if it's by a simple phrase such as thank you for a job well done.  These teachers really care and.try to work with their students.  I had a teacher in high school who would stay after school for as long as a student needed her to help him with something unclear.  High school teachers deserve the most recognition because students in high school seem to be the hardest to deal with in a classroom.
	Teachers should be appreciated because they make a difference in almost every child's life.  I know that my favorite teacher from high school made a difference in my life.  She was more like my mother at school than a teacher.  If I needed something, such as a safety pin or advice, I could depend on her for whatever I needed.  Teachers seem to have a mother instinct even if they are not real mothers.  Teachers leave their homes to come and educate the children of others.  They too deserve their flowers while they live just as many moms ask of their children.  I've heard that if you ask a child who they admire, many answer with the name of a teacher.
For as long as I can remember, people have been rewarded when they do good, so why aren't teachers rewarded when they do good? People don't realize the good that teachers do.
Teachers continue to educate even when students don't want to learn.  Teaching is not only their job, it becomes their responsibility.  The reward can be big or small.  A material gift or a kind word of expression.  The type of reward isn't as important as the fact of giving the reward because teachers deserve it.
	After going to school for twelve years, I've found that I respected my high school teachers more than I did any teacher before high school.  I'm guilty of being like society and not rewarding teachers whom I didn't like.  Those teachers still deserve reward because they are still educators.  High school teachers seem to be more dedicated to teaching.  I guess they have to be that way because students in high school seem as if they don't care about getting an education.  These students make teachers want to be more dedicated and because there are so many of these students, there are many dedicated teachers.
Every year, one high school teacher is named "Teacher of the year".  I believe every teacher, as described before, is a teacher of the year.  My definition of "Teacher of the year" is every teacher who comes to class and has at least one student to learn something from him or her within a class period.  This person must be dedicated to teaching and to helping any and every student.  I've awarded my favorite high school teacher with the kind words <*>. She's also been rewarded with many material gifts within the last 4 years that I've known her.  For example, she is a member of the Delta sorority and they collect elephants, so I've bought her different elephant pins to enhance her collection.  I've been told that a kind word of expression given to a teacher is much more heart touching than any material gift that can be given.  I think teachers should be recognized monthly if not daily.  Everyday at least one student should tell a teacher something they've done good or what's most appreciated.  The problem with this is that students tease other students about trying to become "the teacher's pet" and this makes them not want to compliment teachers.'
Teachers also deserve more pay.  Teaching may be one of the hardest jobs to deal with.  It takes a lot of patience, time, and effort to be a good teacher.  There are a limited amount of teachers because the pay isn't good and rules are getting stricter concerning teacher's limitations.  Give the teachers what they deserve and maybe we'll have more educators.
So why are teachers underpaid? They are because we, as a society, have this idea that teachers don't have a hard job.  They feel that teachers just study the material and feed it back to the students.  This is a misconception because teachers have to have some knowledge of the material in order to relate it in a way that students can understand.
Society should respect teachers just as much as they do doctors.  Doctors assist in saving our physical lives and teachers assist in saving our academic lives.  When we are sick, doctors work hard to make us better.  When our grades are low, teachers work hard to make them better.  Society has never actually compared teachers to highly respected figures in our society but if they did, they would find that teachers have many similarities to these highly respected figures.  Society should take more time to research the good things teachers do.  It's wrong for society to treat teachers less than they do other figures in society because it teachers that have helped made these figures.
Students, parents, and schools are responsible for rewarding these teachers.  The students. should because they are more directly affected by the teachers.  The parents because teachers have to put up with a lot in dealing with the parents' children.  Learning begins at home, so teachers have to build on or finish what learning the parents have already given their children.  Parents are quick to jump on teachers when they do wrong but are slow in praising teachers when they are right.  The schools because teachers, along with students, make the schools.  If there aren't good teachers in the schools, then there aren't good students to come from the schools.
So when are teachers going to be recognized more? When everyone realizes that if it weren't for teachers, some of us would not have the education that has gotten us the good jobs and degrees that we have.  If we have trouble understanding or realizing how we got our education, we must list the people who helped us along the way.  Everyone that has been to school should have a teachers name as a part of their list.  I know I have one in particular who is at the head of my list.  If asked for more, I could name others that made me appreciate getting an education.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0008.2>

Should there be a salary cap on the salaries received by professional football players? There are many reasons why there should be a salary cap.  For one, most of the professional football players make more money than a college graduate does.  Second, the teams should spend the money on the facilities for the fans.  Third, a salary cap would put a halt on the players determining how much money they are going to make the following year.
Is the college graduate the honored person these days? For many reasons the answer is no.  A student can graduate from college as a doctor of science and still not be as important, nor make as much money as a professional football player.  Yes, usually the football player is known all over the world, but what is the real significance of his job? A doctor, or a nurse work for more than forty hours a week saving other peoples lives and still don't get as much recognition as a pro football player does.  A football player can start his first year and get more glory and honor than is needed for someone that does nothing but entertain.  In many ways this is wrong.  We need doctors, but do wee really need professional football players? The American people need to think about what is more important to live.  We could live without sports but we will always need doctors.  Which job would be considered the most important to the American person? With the money that the professional football players make it would seem that they are more important than doctors.  A professional football player makes more money in one year than a doctor does in a lifetime.  Is this really fair? In many ways it is not fair.  Mainly because doctors have to work very hard to get where they are going and football players don't do anything that is considered rewarding.  All you have to be able to do is run and catch balls that are thrown to you.  A person could not be smart enough to pass the second grade, but as long as he can play ball he is going to be rich.  There is no person on Earth that could possibly use the amount of money that these players make a year, in a lifetime.  Some of the money that they make could be used for good causes.  For instance, there are many charity organizations for the mentally retarded, or those with muscular dystrophy that this money could be spent on.  There are those persons that are not as fortunate as others at times like Christmas that the money could be used to help.  There are many things that the money could be used for other than for the enjoyment of greedy football players.  Some of the NFL teams that are richer than others, such as Dallas, could set up a fund for an organization like one of these and put the money to good
use.

In many ways the money creates an attitude of greediness among many sports players.  With this attitude it changes their whole outlook on life.  It makes them think that they are better than other people and it also makes them think that they can get away with other things.  Take OJ Simpson, for instance, the whole reason why he was let off was because he was a popular football player and everyone idolized him.  These players are idolized by children as well as adults, and many times the example that they set is not a good one.  One way is whenever the players go on strike.  The main reason why they go on strike is because they know that if they refuse to play that they will eventually make the amount of money that they want.  Why do they do this? The one reason why they go on strike is because of the money.  So. why don't we stop giving them so much money.  If we put a salary cap on the salaries received by these players, then maybe the whole NFL would change for the better.
Some of the arenas that are the homes of these NFL teams are worn out and are not as good as they should be.  Some of them are rundown and not safe to go to.  I attended a football game last year and the seat that I sat in was broken, then when I went to the restroom there wasn't any toilet paper in the stall.  I thought that with all the money that they make, it seems like they would at least have good facilities to use.  If these NFL teams are making so much money then where is it all going? Are the players getting all of the money, or are the managers keeping it all to themselves? They need to make the stadiums more enjoyable to go to.  Without fans, the players nor the managers would get any money.  So, why are they more interested in themselves and not worried about the fans? This is just another example of why a salary cap would be a good idea.  We would be able to find out where all of the money is going.  It would be able to explain why the money is not being spent on things which are much more important.
	In many NFL teams the players try to determine how much money they are going to make the following year.  There are many ways which this could be done. One way is if you are a good player they will pay you more money than if you sat the bench the whole year.  What the teams do is the managers get together and decide if they want you to play with them the next year.  If they do want you to play with them they offer to pay you more money than ant other team.  So the teams with more money are usually the teams with the best players.  An example of this would be Deion Sanders.  He originally played for the San Francisco Forty-Niners, but whenever the Dallas Cowboys offered him more money he decided to play with them.  With a salary cap these players would not be able to do this.  One reason is because each player would make a set amount each year.  Some people would think that this was unfair because the most popular players should make more than the players that sit the bench.  But in a way this is wrong, giving more money to a player because he is popular would be unfair.  Why should Deion Sanders make more money than Andre Risen just because he is more popular? They both are working the same job, so why should Deion make more money? This would be like me making more money than a friend that does the same job as I do.  With a salary cap this type of discrimination would decrease.
As you can see there are many different reasons why a salary cap would be very affective.  It would decrease the hostility between players, and increase the excitement of the game of football.  Football use to be just a game that children played on Sunday afternoon, but it has turned into nothing but power and a way to make a lot of money.  Money and power didn't get involved until the 1950's.  Football has turned into a sport where hate has taken over and the main reason is because of the money.  Money causes hate among friends and family, as well as football players.  The one way to stop all of this hate is to put a salary cap on the salaries received by professional football players.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0009.2>

Sex in the media is greatly overrated these days.  Sex Is used to do everything.  I can't remember a time when I have turned on the television and not watched a movie, with a great deal of sex in it.  Some of the best shows on television, according to the ratings are shows where everyone sleeps with everyone.  Beverly Hills, 90210 and Melrose Place are prime examples of overrated sex in the media.  In these two shows, if everyone isn't sleeping with everyone else, then the characters are not happy.  On Beverly Hills, 90210, everyone on that show has or will have slept with everyone else, by the end of the season.  Television isn't the only place where sex is everywhere.
We also have radio.  Now radio is almost as bad as television.  Every time I turn on the radio, I either hear a man or a woman saying how things would be alright, if you just make love.  Then again some songs don't even have to be listened to, to realize they are talking about sex.  "Sex Me", by R. Kellye, bluntly saids what the song is about.  "I'll Make Love to You", by Boyz II Men is another obvious one.  Now, these songs don't even have to be heard, just read the titles to know what the song is about.  Television and radio are not the only places sex is overrated.
	Magazines are also in the large number of those who promote sex. 	Almost every magazine I have ever read, has ads f eaturing sex. These ads use sex to sell everything from shampoo to cologne. In these ads we have half nude men and women, either by themselves or together promoting sex to sell something.  There are these Paul Mitchell shampoo ads, which should probably show the model´s head, because all we need to see is her hair.  Instead, they show a model lying down with a sheet wrapped around her body.  Nothing but a sheet.  Now if I'm not mistaken, shampoo is used to wash your hair not your whole body, so why show her half dressed body.  "Gravity", a cologne for men, has ads with a man kissing on a woman, both half dressed, soak and wet on a beach.  The slogan reads <*>. Now they only show a little picture of the cologne.  You would miss the cologne if you didn't look hard.  Now if you're trying to sell something, why not show an average size picture of the product your selling.  Most of these ads are like the ones I described above.
If sex is in television, radio and magazines, then you leave nothing to be desired.  With all this sex in the media, I wonder why teenagers think the way they do about sex.  The media advertises sex, as something that happens in the heat of the moment.
I have never seen a show where the characters stopped to use condoms or even discussed their sexual histories with their partners.  We wonder why there are so many pregnant teenage females and why so many teenagers have sexually transmitted diseases.  A lot of teenagers don't talk to their parents about sex, and their only conception of sex is 'through the media.  With the media portraying sex as something that just happens, no wonder why teenagers won't protect themselves.  They think it is okay to get caught up in the heat of the moment and not protect themselves.  That's not reality.
The media is always trying to persuade us that their programs and ads are realistic, if so, show some programs and ads, that don't center around sex.  I understand that sex sells", but why can't we have more decent ads and programs, without sex.  The media leaves nothing to the imagination.  We have to assume nothing, all we have to do is look and listen.  There was once a time when things were never shown or told, they were assumed.  Its funny how some people say that sex should be talked about openly.  Then when it comes down to talking about taking precautions and protecting themselves, nothing is said.  You can't have one without the other.  You can't want to discuss sex openly without discussing taking precautions measures.
You can't wonder why so many teenagers are sexually active without watching television or listening to the radio or reading a magazine.
You can't wonder why so many teenagers are getting pregnant and contracting sexually transmitted diseases, when there is so much information about safe sex.  You can talk and advertise more about the precautions you take, if you want to become sexually active.  You can show more programs with less sex or "understood" sex.  "Understood" sex is when they kiss and the lights go out until the next morning.  With this in mind, maybe more teenagers will not want to have sex, because they want see how good it looks, everywhere they turn.  The only things else that needs to be said is that sex is greatly overrated in the media.


<ICLE-US-SCU-0010.2>

When people sit down to watch a television program that has sex in it, they do not realize that somewhere a child could be watching that same program.  The most common time for a child to watch a program that should be screened from them is when dad is at work and mom is in the kitchen cooking or cleaning.  Children starting at age four, generally watch what looks interesting to them.  Children like to watch what they call 11 Big people shows".  Those kinds of shows not only interest the children but make the children to want to experiment and do what the people on the shows do.  Watching "Big people shows" makes the child feel older and grown up.  Parents are too busy in the nineties providing for their family, cooking, cleaning, and socializing to know what their child is watching on television all of the time.  Also, most children have televisions of their own at young ages and that gives them more freedom to watch what they want in the privacy of their bedroom while momls cooking or cleaning.  This brings us to one major problem.  Approximately ninety eight percent of television programs are not for children.  That only leaves a small two percent of television programs for children to watch.  If you spread that out in a seven day period that's about two programs a day.  Let us start when a child gets home from school at
out three o'clock.  On one channel at three o'clock a soap opera is on which has sex, violence, and profanity.  At four o'clock Opra talk show is on which has sex and profanity usually.  At five o'clock Ricki Lake talk show is on which has sex and profanity.  After her show we have the News a game show and then a nigh time soap opera.  By this time it's nine o'clock and time for the child to go to bed and out of six hours there was one thirty minute game show that is fit for a child to watch.  With these television programs on every day the child starts to watch his or her favorite show and once interested then wants to experiment.  Children from ages four to twelve have not been educated about sexuality to understand what they are watching on television.  Children see people on television as role models and want to be like them, dress like them, and copy what they do.  The child's mind and body have not yet matured and developed for them to experiment what they see on television.  For an example, if an eight year old is watching the Ricki Lake show who has unmarried thirteen and fourteen year old girls that are pregnant, the child might think when she turns thirteen that she might get pregnant or that it's okay.  Also, the child is not knowledgeable enough to know how the thirteen year old got pregnant.  Once the child starts putting the television programs together they will soon learn how the teenager got pregnant and the child will think it's all right to have sex and get pregnant at an early age.
Children are not educated enough below the age of twelve to experiment everything they see on television.  The variety of television programs that children have to choose from is not large at all.  But yet children have more time and use their time to watch television more than adults do.  There are even some cartoon programs that are on early in the morning and early in the evening that are suitable for children,to watch.  The parents do not pay attention to the cartoon programs to see what the content is. They just assume that because it is a cartoon that it is suitable for their child to watch.  I do not allow my four year old and eight year old to watch 11 The Simpsons", because along with profanity Bart Simpson is disrespectful and yet children think he is so great and so funny.  The children that see Bart Simpson as a role model will tend to copy his tactics and think that it is all right to talk back to your parents and be disrespectful when it is not.
Children are not mentally ready to cope with the sex, violence, and profanity that is on television all day and everyday.  Children draw their own conclusions from what they see big people or adults do.  Only adults do not usually show sexual relations, violence and profanity in front of their children.  Instead the television bluntly shows them.  My four year old draws her own conclusion sometimes.  Just recently she saw a man and a women kiss on television and. assumed that they were married.  When I told her they were not married, she insisted that when a man and women kiss that they are married.  Every child is different and draws their own conclusions.  The majority of the movies that are on television also have nudity in them and once the child's curiosity is motivated the questions start popping up for mom and dad to answer.  That's not always a problem if the child is old enough to know and understand what you are going to explain to them, but if the child is too young and not educated enough and you just don't answer him then he will take his curiosity some where else and that could be harmful for the child.
Sexuality is a large area to cover.  Not only does it include just plain sex but how about homosexuality? Yes, homosexuality is on television also.  How is a parent suppose to explain that to a four year old where she can understand it? I am not sure, because the child again is not mentally educated enough to understand what the parent explains to them.  Sexuality is not taught in school until eighth grade.  Until then its up to the parents and the child's surroundings to keep the child from being harmfully educated by the television.  It's hard to tell your child you just don't want him or her watching television but when the majority of the programs are for adults only that what can you say but no.  I know the televisions stations cannot completely stop the adult programs until children are in the bed but maybe if they viewed more programs for children between the hours after school and about eight o'clock at night the the children would not be exposed to sexuality as much as they are now.  Even if the programs are only thirty minute programs the child would look forward to watching it every day and this would not be harmful for the child.  I feel that in the last five years the media has really gotten bad in showing sex, violence, and profanity on television, even in the commercials, but I feel that if adults want to see the sex,, violence, and profanity they can go to a movie theatre or rent a movie.  As it stands now about ninety percent of the rated "RI, movies you would go to a theatre and see you can watch on your very own television right now.  I think the media should give a little more thought to our children growing up in the nineties and a little less thought to the very busy adults that watch a lot less television than children do.










<ICLE-US-SCU-0011.2>

For several years now there has been an ongoing war against all that has not benefited the United States at all.  Americans as a whole have shown that they feel that keeping drugs illegal helps to keep them under control.  As drug problems get worse though, a small minority of people have begun to realize the effects drug laws are having on the society of America.  They have come to reality and decided that ,drug prohibition has not worked in the past, does not now, and will not work in the future (Duke 231).  Drug legalization has many beneficial outcomes and personally I think it' s time we stop wasting money on keeping drugs illegal when it does not even work.  America needs to use that money on more important things such as helping the homeless or promoting education.
One of the most important benefits of drug legalization is the fact that the prices of drugs would decrease and there would not be as much drug trade.  <*> .  This would in fact make it more difficult for drug pushers to sell on the streets because <*>.  Therefore, not as many people would be selling drugs because they would not be able to make a lot of money off of them.
Another benefit of legalizing drugs would be the decrease in crime.  Because the drug prices would decrease, <*>.  Therefore, when drug prices are high and hard to get people will more than likely commit a crime to get access to them.  Also in the cities,  <*>.  This really appeals to the younger generation when they see how easy it is to make that big money so therefore they get hooked up in the drug business.  <*>.
Not only would drug legalization benefit the world in those ways but it would also make more room for the real criminals in prison rather than the drug users.  Millions of people buy illicit drugs every day and are labeled criminals for doing so.  <*> .  If drugs were legalized that one third of people would not be considered criminals and they could be at home with their spouses or children.  Instead of the law enforcement worrying about the dangerous criminals such as murderers
	and rapists they are worried about controlling the use of drugs.
The next benefit would have to be the fact that the drug users would be responsible for their own debts.  <*> .  If drugs were legal America would not be wasting money on keeping them illegal.  Also, if all drugs were taxed it would be beneficiary to America because we could use that money on more important things.
Another important benefit of legalizing drugs would be that it would help to enhance public health.  The dangers to physical health from using drugs, such as heroin, cocaine, marijuana or other previously illegal drugs, would be greatly reduced.  If drugs were to increase by a factor of two or three, the deaths and diseases caused by such drug use would be much lower than they are now.  Legalizing heroin, cocaine, and marijuana would produce a reduction in the use of tobacco and alcohol, saving thousands of lives every year, maybe even more.  Many of the illegal drugs are substitutes for alcohol, and vice versa.  This suggests that increased availability of marijuana would reduce alcohol consumption.  Similarly, when heroin, they become alcohol abusers.  Making heroin more available would probably decrease the number of alcohol abusers.  If legalization produces an increase in the consumption of illegal drugs, some of the increase may represent a transfer from alcohol or even tobacco.  But even if no such transfers happen, the first factor mention above might produce a reduction in smoking and drinking.
Another good factor of drug legalization is that drug prosecution will no longer destroy the lives of otherwise productive citizens.  Most users of presently illegal drugs, like tobacco and alcohol users, usually show respect for the law.  But making their drug consumption a serious crime makes it harder for them to purchase the drug.  It also makes it impossible for them because of their socially and economically margin.  Many of the people in jail are there for illegal drug or drug-related offenses.  If drug prohibition was repealed, many of these people would be useful members of society.  For example, men or women who are in jail for drug offenses and have a family at home, would be able to help raise their families left parentless by imprisonmemt.
I have presented some of the most important benefits of drug legalization.  I think it is about time for America to face the truth and to stop the war against drugs so we can use legal drugs to our advantage.  Eventually something
will have to be done and legalizing drugs would not only save the nation money, reduce crime and make the users pay their own debts, but it would restore respect for the law along with many other things.


<ICLE-US-SCU-0012.2>

Sometimes when people suffer from extreme illnesses they look for other options as an easy way out.  When the pain becomes unbearable and the medication stops working some people would rather die than to continue to live in pain.  Those patient's who desire to end their lives do not wish to do so on their own.  They prefer to have an easy and painless death, and so they choose a form of suicide which is referred to as euthanasia.  Euthanasia is a "mercy killing" for the purpose of putting an end to extreme suffering.  Many of the cases concerning euthanasia in the past few years have been performed or assisted by a doctor known as Dr. Kevorkian.  There has been much controversy over assisted suicides, especially those performed with the assistance of a doctor.  Should it be legalized to allow doctors to assist in suicides of terminally ill patients, or should they be bound by their Hippocratic Oath?
There are several different forms of euthanasia.  One form of euthanasia is when a person's life is in a permanently unconscious state, sometimes referred to as a "vegetable." When a person is in this state, if they do not have a living will stating their wishes, the family has the right to make the decision concerning whether the patient should remain on life support or not after they have consulted with the physician concerning the matter.  There are very few legal objections to this form of euthanasia.  It is widely practiced in hospitals all over America.  Many people leave in their will expressed wishes to not be kept alive on life support systems.  When the physician determines that there is no chance of a patient's
recovery, it is their duty to carry out the patient's wishes and disconnect life support.  Another type of euthanasia is when a patient requests that the doctor provide no more treatment.  If medical conduct to end the patient's life is prohibited, the patient is allowed maximum opportunity to change his mind and demand treatment.  The patient declining treatment normally remains alive for a period and thereby receives some opportunity to change one's mind or to eliminate any mistake on the physicians part in comprehending the patient's wishes.  A third type of euthanasia is self-inflicted by one's ending of one's life by means of suicide.  This type of euthanasia is occurring more frequently because it is seen as the easiest way out.
William F. May wrote in his essay, The Right to Die and the Obligation to Care: Allowing to Die, Killing for Mercy, and Suicide that there are four major cultural and social forces opposed to the right to die.  The first force is the view among Christains that suicide is <*>.  The second force states that self-destruction is not only immoral, unnatural, and sinful, but illegal.  A third social force pushing against the right to die is the spectacular success of modern technology.  The advancing of technology has led to many break throughs in medicine.  Illnesses that were once thought fatal are being cured.  The fourth societal force is the medical profession. 
May's four forces give us much insight into modern societies outlook on euthanasia which is an issue that has been debated for a long time.  These forces have led to no concrete laws thus far.  The main type of euthanasia being debated at the moment is physician assisted suicide.  Physicians are helping patients end their own life by using their medical knowledge.  The most publicized case in the United States is the case of Jack Kevorkian.  Dr. Kevorkian developed a device in October 1989 that would end one's life quickly and painlessly.  He assisted a 54 year old Alzheimer's disease patient in committing suicide in June 1990.  In December, Kevorkian was charged with first-degree murder, but his charge was dismissed due to the fact that Michigan has no law against assisted suicide.  Even though his charge was dropped, he was ordered not to help anyone else commit suicide or to give advice about it.  However, in February 1991, he violated the court order by giving advice about the preparation of the drug he invented to a terminally
ill cancer patient.  He still did not obey the court order and still instructed two Michigan women how to commit suicide.  Finally, in October 1991, additional murder charges were lodged against him, but in July 1992 the charges were dismissed once again by Judge David Breck.  David Breck stated that <*>.  He also expressed his belief that physician-assisted suicide remains an alternative for patients experiencing Re unmanageable pain.  This view has struck the heart of the medical community.
All physicians are bound by the Hippocratic Oath.  Each physician must pledge to adhere to the Hippocratic oath while performing their duties as a physician to society.  While taking the Hippocratic Oath, every physician must state this: <*>.  These words of the oath are altered by many people when contradicting the right to death by choice.  Physicians use this statement from the oath as an argument against death by choice.
An advocate for euthanasia named Joseph Fletcher made an effort to find contradictions in the oath.  He said that the oath promised two things: <*>.

Doctors do not have the authority morally or ethically
to make the decision to allow a patient to die.  One's expertise as a physician does not give one the ability to decide the fate of the patient.  A doctor might be asked to administer an injection which would bring about an easy and painless death for a patient who is terminally ill.  In this case, he must be guided by his conscience.  It is not the right of a doctor to decide to initiate or suggest euthanasia as an option, but it is one's option as a physician to cooperate with a patient's decision.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0013.2>


What is marijuana? It is a plant, and I think it should be legalized.  The most political stance to take on this situation would be to say it's a drug and it should be thought of as an illegal substance.  Although, that is the most political stance we all know that most politicians who set these laws up use drugs themselves.  Over the last few years I've noticed a rise in the popularity of weed.  My first time ever seeing weed was when I was a little kid.  I didn't know exactly what it was, but I knew that it was a really odd smelling cigarette.  When I got older I found out that my mom and my dad smoked weed when they were younger.
I always told myself that even though they did it back in the 70's it still wasn't right.  I am a product of the just say no age.  From way back when I was in the third grade the schools have been pounding it in my head "Just Say No".  I never gave it any thought I figured the world was set up so that if you stayed off and away from drugs you would live a better life.  As I got older I realized that this was not true.  The people that I know who sell marijuana had nice clothes and drove nice cars.  The Columbian suppliers make millions every year.  The American government officials who see and don't see make mega bucks, and most of these officials are the same guys who keep weed illegal.
As I got older and found out more about this mixed up world I came to realize that in european countries you can buy weed like you buy a pack of cigarettes.  At first I thought this was extremely odd.  In my mind weed was a drug I had seen it as a young kid but I had never actually inspected it. I didn't really know what marijuana was.  Then one day I a conversation with this Jamaican man that we called Black Mosses.  He explained it all to me, he told me that marijuana was natural because it was a plant that came from the earth and it could be used in it's leafy form unlike cocaine which was processed and it has impurities in it.  He also said that the only reason that weed was illegal was because if it was legalized government officials wouldn't get their cut.  When he was telling me this I thought that he was talking out of his head.
Do you ever notice that when the cops make a bust they arrest the little man, the neighborhood dealers.  You rarely hear about people getting busted bringing drugs into this country.  I'm not trying to say that it is some grand scale cover up by our government to bring more money into their economy, but think about it if marijuana was legalized the government wouldn't get its cut from the drug busts.  I am in no way saying drugs are good, but I don't believe marijuana is a drug.  I consider it to be an herb with helpful properties.  Did you know that marijuana can be used to slow down certain eye ailments.  Did you know that marijuana can be used as an ingredient in certain entrees.  It is highly non habit forming, and their are nearly no long lasting side effects that occur from using this drug.
I personally have never used the drug, but I have a lot of friends who do and it only mellows them out when their stressed out much like an advil would.  If weed is so negative why are their so many former hustlers, current users, and former users in the media.  These highly respected folks include the President of the U.S., The Notorious B.I.G. Snoop and this list could go on for days just naming rappers and rock stars.  How could such a helpful herb get such a bad reputation.  I'm not suggesting that any of my fellow class mates go out and start smoking weed but I have seen, personally, former class mates of mine light up before study c ession, and they have aced their tests the next day.  In closing I would like to quote the great Bob Marley "Don't critisize it, legalize it.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0014.2>

If a husband is considerate enough to "allow" his wife to stay home and take care of the household duties,his wife should literally worship the ground he walks upon. Not in this day and age. In a marriage in which the wife chooses to stay home while the husband takes care of all financial responsibilities, the wife should not be viewed as any less a person nor denied equal ownership of all possessions.  The wife does make valuable contributions to the family that a price can not be put on.  Another reason a stay home wife's position in the family should not be viewed as inferior to that of the working husband is because when the marriage was entered into the man should have known her plans for their future together.  If he didn't like the idea of his wife not working then perhaps the marriage should not have been entered into.
In some marriages due to the fact that the wife does not work, she is viewed as inferior to her husband, simply because the husband is the bread winner for the family.  However, that doesn't give him the right to label all the items purchased as "his." I was watching a television program and this issue appeared in the script.  The husband was talking to one of his children while fixing on an automobile.  The child asked <*>. The husband replied <*>. The child said <*>. The father added <*>. The wife over heard this conversation and became quite upset.  She had  thought that their relationship was one based on the principle of fifty, fifty.  However, her husband was labeling what she considered ',their', possessions as "his" possessions.  The husband then went on to say that he viewed the car as his because he took care of it, She then took the argument in a different direction.  She said that if that was the case then by right she owned the house because she cleaned it and kept it up.  He then struck back by saying that the house was also his because oddly enough he paid for it too.  This is where the line should be drawn.  It's impossible to have a healthy marriage if each partner puts labels of ownership on his or her possessions.  The wife in this situation is made to feel inferior, however, she shouldn't.
In most marriages when the wife stays home it's usually the consent of both partners.  The wife will usually choose to stay home in order to take care of the house and the children.  Unless the husband has such a great job that she can stay home just because they are financially comfortable without an extra income.  Taking care of a house just as well as taking care of an income are both sources of
income.  If the wife were to choose to pursue a career then the family may need a house keeper to perform the duties that she presently performs.  The couple would then have to pay the house keeper for his or her services which by law they could be required to pay $4.25 per hour. There are some cases in which the housekeeper is paid a flat rate per week.

In this sense then the wife's work should be viewed as just as important as that of her husband's.  The only difference is that the husband's work brings in the money that they live off.  However, it's important that the wife's work be considered just as essential as that of her husband's because she makes it possible for them to live in a clean and loving atmosphere.  A prime example is my own family.  Both my Mom and Dad work.  When my mom gets home she picks up my younger sisters from the baby-sitter's.  She then goes home to begin preparing something for dinner.  Once dinner has been started she rounds up the dirty clothes so that they
can be washed, dried, and put away.  Once dinner is done and everybody has been fed, she makes my sisters take their baths and get ready for bed.  While they're bathing she usually picks out the clothes they're going to wear the next day.  Sometimes this clothing may require ironing, in which case she then has to do.  By the time she has finished everything required of her, it's now time for her to try to get some rest before started another working day again.  With a schedule such as this all that she's ever in the mood for is watching a little television and going to bed.  Where as if she were able to stay home and take care of my youngest sister and keep the house, she would have more time to do things that she enjoys.  She would also have more time to do fun things with her children.
As stated earlier there are instances when immediately after marriage is entered into the wife no longer works.

However, in these instances the newly acquired husband should have already been prepared for this arrangement.  Most of the time when a newly wed wife stays home it's because she chooses to.  Before getting married she and her fiance more than likely discussed what they planned to achieve as a married couple.  If the guy didn't like the idea of having to "support" his wife then nine times out of ten the marriage wouldn't have taken place.
When addressing the topic of a stay home wife working in the home because she chooses to, it's important to address the fact that in many of the cases the wife is able to stay home because the couple is financially successful with just one income.  It is in these instances that the wife is able to have "the best of both worlds." What is meant by this statement is that the wife can stay home,watch the soaps, clean house and donate her time to charitable organizations.  In each of these cases it's important that the husband not consider himself superior t his wife.  He should not feel that she is his maid and that her only duty is to please him and take care of "his" possessions.  Instead the wife should be treated as his "equal." Just because she's not out in the working world from day to day doesn't mean that her life is any less involved.  In these various instances in which the wife chooses to stay home, it's important that the husband respect his wife's - and in some cases his- decision to be a stay home wife.  The husband should look upon his wife as his equal and thus view their possessions as such.  However, in these instances the husband should have to do more than simply state the fact that their possessions are theirs.  He should also prove that he considers their possessions to be owned on a fifty-fifty basis.  In order to prove this fact this fifty-fifty relationship should be put in writing.  For instance when the couple buys a house or a car both the husband's and the wife's name should be put on the contracts.  This is important in instances in which the husband dies.  If the wife's name isn't on the mortgage then controversy could arise. when it comes down to mortgage payments some type arrangements should have already been prepared.  In some instances it's possible for the wife to loose the house simply because her name is no where to be found as having equal ownership of the property.  It is in these instances that the wife could possibly be out of a house which in some cases is her only "home."
Lots of people seem to view a stay home wife as inferior.  There have been various situations in which I have seen a stay home wife viewed as inferior.  I have been in the grocery store before and over heard women gossiping about the fact that all that one lady does is stay home watch the soap-operas and sleep all day.  Another example is when people view stay home wives as "users." I have heard women say that all that a particular stay home wife is ,doing is using her husband.  These women will make comments like <*>. These are just a few
common misconceptions.  However, in these situations the important point to be gathered is that outsiders only get a partial view of a situation.  They therefore do not have the right to put labels on stay home wives.  These outsiders should instead learn to pay more attention to business of their own.
Instead of receiving all the grief that lots of stay home wives receive, they should be viewed with the utmost respect.  Every individual deserves the right to choose what path they want their life to take.  Sometimes what's good for the goose isn't good for the gander.  A woman choosing to be a stay home wife should be a mutual agreement between herself and her husband.  What ever agreement is reached should be looked upon with the utmost sincerity from those not directly affected.  Choosing to be a ',stay home wife" is just as big a decision as choosing to be an electrical engineer.  It all depends on what the person wants out of life.



<ICLE-US-SCU-0015.2>

Society has a double standard for women in our culture.  It stems back from the past when were strictly in the home and the man was the breadwinner and head of the household.
People of an older generation are the main ones who experienced the start of the feminism movement, which was a movement for the equality of warm.  Back in the early nineteen hundreds, we had only one place in society, under man's dominant rule.  There was no equality between the sexes.  Since, the man was the head of the household, he served as the dominant ruler and leader which is the way it always was in the past.  Things were fine and dandy until women started getting a little "uppity" in their thinking.  Women ,actually thought that they were equal to men, now what kind of idea was that? At least, that was the general concept in male society.
The Bible says that God made Adam, the man, before he made Eve, the woman.  Therefore, since the man was first, he is the leader.  This is why early society placed women under men.  In the eyes of men, women were seen as, docile, fragile, and emotional human beings.  So, they would treat women like pets.  All a woman had to do was be there, raise the children, obey her husband's every word and she would be taken cared of with no worries to bother her "fickle" mind.
Women were getting restless, they no longer wanted to be only in the home, but they wanted real, equal places in society.  Women wanted the freedom that men had to hold job positions of any type, to wear what they wanted, and most of all women wanted the right to vote.  Men felt that belonged in the home, and a man was the one to go out and work and provide for his family.  This was tradition.  That was one of the main reasons why men had such a hard tire trying to understand why wanted to break this custom.  A concept in feminism is that females are human beings too and just because they are female, doesn't mean they are particulary weak or unintelligent.  Women were blessed with brains just like men were and sex discrimination is wrong.
Being that were believed to be the weaker sex, men set up double standards in society.  Women could not do the jobs a man could do, because they weren't strong enough or intelligent enough.  Well, I think women were certainly strong enough to weather male attitudes of that day, and definitely smart enough to fool their husbands into thinking they were being obeyed.  Another thing about double standards were the way sons and daughters were raised.  Sons got taught to do all the things that would be expected of him when he got a family of his own, and daughters were taught likewise, but the daughters were sheltered from the 'real' world.  Females growing up in their teenage years were treated like little girls, it was nearly impossible for them to get permission to do anything.  An example of this is when a female wanted to go out on a date with a young man, she usually got grilled for information about his family, and so on.  The young might also be chaperoned m her date.  A young man did not get treated like that, he was basically able to do as he pleased.  How fair was that? It all goes back to the culture of our society and what was appropiate during that time.
Today, in modern times, things have changed a lot from the earlier years.  Women are equal partners with men and can do do any job a man can do.  In some cases, women tend to do better than their male counterparts.
Another thing about women in present society are their attitudes and what is appropriate to society.  <*>.
This quote clearly describes how men still expect women to remain passive and submissive, just the way they were, before the feminism movement.  Women are usually encouraged to be passive by home training, and a picture of what society views as a real lady.  How about all of those children stories we used to read when we were growing up.  The stories would traditionally have the little girls inside the house playing dress-up, and playing with dolls; the boys would be outside getting into all sorts of trouble or climbing trees.  Stories like Cinderella and Sleeping Beauty, show females waiting to be rescued by a man.  This type of story feeds to little girls that its okay to be dependent on a man, you don't have to be independent, especially if you are nice and sweet.  It also shows little boys that their role is not played in the house doing "girly" things.  Why weren't the girls also playing outside or doing some type of sport, it is because of the attitude in society of what a little girl is and what a little girl does, and what a boy is and does.  This is a big double standard.  The feminism movement tests the traditional structure of what society deems a warm.
Media also plays a huge part in what is the ideal In the past, the ideal was the woman who stayed at horn and could usually be found in the kitchen baking goodies for her family.  She was the motherly type, nuturing and caring.  Today's ideal women is a beautiful, thin model with the intellingence, skills, and a job of her own.  The two optimum words in the previous statement were "..beautiful and thin..." Television and magazines have implanted in most peoples' minds that if a woman is not beautiful and thin, then in same way she doesn't measure up, therefore a lot of young girls are left feeling that they have to look or act a certain way if they want to fit in.  It also puts into the minds of young men that this is the way a young man should be, and that's who they should want.
The glamourous girls always seem to have everything they want and any guy they want. on tv shows, the guys always clamour to be with this one woman dressed sexy. why can't the be chased after because she's intelligent? The reason why is because society has a tendency to base everything on sex appeal, especially with . Ladies like sexy men too, but attractiveness is not the only characteristic of a person and people need to know that. sometimes make bad mistakes when they find someone who's attractive, intelligent, and has a job.  The woman may cling on to that Person even though that person may not be the "right one" for them.
The feminism movement has given a lot of Women the courage to stand up for their rights.Everywoman 's Bill of Rights: 1 . The right to be treated with respect; 2. The right to have and express your own feelings and opinions; 3. The right to be listened to and taken seriously; 4. The right to set your own priorties; 5. The right to say no without feeling guilty; 6. The right to ask for what you want; 7. The right to get what you pay for; 8. The right to ask for information from professionals; 9. The right to make mistakes; 10.  The right to choose not to assert yourself (Bloom, 24).  These are the basic rights of all women and knowing them helps women to better assert themselves and be who they are no matter what society deems a real woman.
In our society, warm are expected to behave like an emotional, high-strung human being.  Expectations are set for all different types of women and how they should act.  People look for the different types of men to all behave in the same way toward no matter what their beliefs are.  This is another double standard. are not all the same and may not appreciate everything that society guesses about their behavior or inner feelings or what society thinks their behavior should be.
People should never set double standards in a culture, because it is unjust and unfair to the person who is treated with a double standard.  Being female, I have a right to express my opinions, to be treated with respect, to vote,, and to do anything I want to do.  I am entitled to equal rights with the men, and I am just as intelligent.  It hurts when you don't get to certain do activities, that you want to do, just because you are a female.  It is not fair! If the situation were reversed, the men would truly feel cursed to a life of misery, because women would be running the world.
People are free to make their own choices and decisions and without the feminism movement back in the mid nineteen hundreds, women might not have had this freedom.  Setting double standards in a society are like setting rules for a school, they should be adhered to.  These "rules" ultimately makes life miserable and unsettling for a person and leaves them feeling restless, upset, and unstable in certain areas of their life.  Everyone wants respect and should get it, because we all have rights.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0016.2>
In 1861, eleven states seceded from the union to form the Confederacy.  These eleven states had their own flag.  This led to controversy between the Confederacy and the Union that resulted in the Civil War.  Today, well over a hundred years later, controversy has risen.  However the controversy is not over the eleven states leaving, but over the flag they flew.
Symbols of the Confederacy, still showing today, have taken over newspaper headlines and political conversations across the nation.  Instead of the flag flying in memory of our heritage and our ancestors, it is now believed that it flies for racial purposes.  Some whites feel that soon all Confederate Monuments, cemeteries, and even Georgias Stone Mountain, with its huge granite memorials to Confederate heroes, will vanish.  Our culture is being eradicated, says Carles Lunford, spokesman for the Sons of Confederate Veterans.  When somebody declares war against your culture he adds, theyre either going to back off or theyre going to have war. (Riley 30) Senator Howell Felfling of Alabama empathizes, his family includes a grand father who served as a Confederate Surgeon.  He said, We must get racism behind us.  We must move forward.  We must realize we live in America today. (Riley 30) its sort of like weve been labeled racists, said Tommie Phillips L. Cavera, President General of the united Daughter of the Confederacy.  This is something our ancestors did over 100 years ago, and were being punished for what they did.  It had nothing to do with  us. (Riley 30)
The Senate had a vote on whether the united Daughters of the Confederacy had to change their symbol.  It is the seven starred confederate flag.  The first black woman to sit in the Senate, Carol Moseley-Braun said, This vote is about racial symbols, the racial past and the single most painful episode in American History.  It is absolutely unacceptabe to me and to millions of Americans, black and white, to put the imprimatur of the United Sates Senate as a symbol of this kind of idea. (Riley 30)
In South Carolina, a poll was taken to find out what people think about the Confederate Flag flying over the State House.  Only fory percent who were surveyed favored keeping the Confederate Flag on the State House dome.  Thirty-seven percent siad they would support a compromise to place the flag at a monument an the Capital grounds, while twenty-three percent todl pollsters they didnt care.  The pollsters also interviewed two hundred and thirteen black South Carolinians.  Forty-six percent supported the flag on the dome and thirty-six percent didnt care either way. (The Post and Courier 1-B)  Its clear that the NAACP is not speaking for the majority of the African-American communities in this issue, said representative Rick Quinn, R-Columbia, Obviously, only a slim plurality feel its an important issue.  Its clear theyre not unified in terms of the compromise of taking the flag down. (The Post and Courier 4-B
In defense of the flag, Senator Campbell said, Slavery was evil enough, but the cold blooded mass extermination of Indian men, women and children was executed by soldiers in blue under the banner of the united States of America. Under Senator Campbells standard, Old Glory would have to be banned as a symbol of genocide. (Davis 10)
In a survey taken across the USA, different people answered the question: Should states remove Confederate symbols from flags and Capitols? Laveme Thomson, 25, a homemaker in Atlanta, Georgia still has many old Southern ways from the 1800's.  It should come out of that stage." Elena Minor, 44, a TV programmer in Los Angeles, California said, "Yes, it is a symbol of division.  It reaffirms the thinking, attitudes and public' policy of that day, which in mind means slavery.  Some people think it is a symbol of Southern Pride on conscious levels.  On an unconscious level, they would like society to be as it was." AI Lukes, 79 A communication VP in Charleston, SC said, "I think it's a marvelous tradition.  Let it be.  It represents a war. this baloney about it being racist-it never was in the beginning and it isn't now.  We have more racism in my hometown, Chicago, than we do here in South Carolina." Patricia Lucas, 56, a waitress in Killingly, Connecticut said, "I say no, because it smacks a censorship to me, even if I find it offensive, which I do, states can do what they want.  People want to censor a lot of speech they, disagree with.  Flags are a form of freedom of expression." Charles Blair, 44, 'newspaper editor in Indianapolis, Indiana said, "States shouId remove them out of respect for Africa-Americans, but governmental or court action should be undertaken.  I understand people's attachments.  Civil War was fought, but the flag is a symbol of slavery for a lot of people.  How much does the concession cost?" (USA 2-B) Those are some different views of people around the USA.
In a speech delivered in Savannah, Georgia, March 21, 1861, Alexander Stephens defended an explained the newly adopted Confederate Constitution.  In his diatribe, Stephens said Thomas Jefferson and other framers of the Federal Constitution believed slavery was evil and wrong.  He pointed out that the Confederate Constitution had no such misgivings.  Stephens said, "Our government is founded upon exactly the opposite ideas, its foundations are laid, its cornerstone rests upon the great truth that the Negro is not equal to the white man.  That slavery subordinates to the superior race in his natural and normal condition." Stephens went on to say to great applause, "This, our new government is the first in the history of the world based upon this great physical, philosophical and moral truth." ( The State 8-B)
A solid majority of Southern whites are not quite ready to let go of the flag.  And an Atlanta Journal-Constitution poll shows that while most Southern blacks see it as a symbol of racial conflict almost a third see it as a symbol of Southern pride.  To ask how this could be is to plumb deep waters, to seed an identity that runs even deeper than race.  It is to know the essential Southernness of all Southern people.
There is always going to be controversy for since we live in this world.  Whether it is over a flag or anything else.  However, there is no reason to fight over something that was established so many years ago.  The flag was, in a sense, a part of our ancestors lives.; They fought under those colors to what they thought were their rights.  If we let these people have their way it will only lead to bigger controversy down the road.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0017.2>

"There should be no partisan in the government, representatives of the people will be divided and without a doubt cause the downfall of the American government." This statement that was made by Thomas Jefferson, the third president of the United States.  Jefferson made this statement back when the federalist and democratic parties were being established.  Jefferson believed that in order for the government to operate at the best of its ability, the representatives must act as one.  Many Americans are now seeing that this statement, made hundreds of years ago, is today coming true.
Tuesday, November 13, 1995, an event took place that left 800,000 workers out of a job with no pay.  This event was so tragic not only because so many people were left without jobs, but also because it should have never occurred.  This event is the shutdown of the United States government and it will not end until government officials. decide to work together and solve the problem that started this whole ordeal.  I feel the American people elect representatives in the government to keep this from happening.  When 800,000 workers, and counting, are out of a job for reasons out of their control, then the government officials are not doing their jobs.
October the first, of each year, is the end of the govermnent's political year.  The government year is called the fiscal year.  By the end of each fiscal year the government must pass thirteen essential bills in order for the government to continue to operate. One of these bills is the United States budget for the next fiscal year.  This may be the most important bill because without a budget (good or bad), government employees cannot be paid.  Often government officials (congress, the president, and the presidents cabinet) wait until the end of the fiscal year to pass these bills.  They do this because at the beginning of the next fiscal year elections take place.  This causes a great deal of tension in the government.  About august of every year a power struggle starts between the different political parties in office.
In many ways this division in power can be good.  When a situation arises, there are more point or views to come up with a solution.  No one person can control the government in a dictatorship.  There are also disadvantages.  Such as unwillingness to compromise, scandals in the different parties, and waste in time mudslinging and patronizing other parties.  The power of the United States Should be equally divided.  When the constitution was written, it designed a government that gave equal power to the congress and to the president.  But it did not allow for political parties to further divide power.  I agree with Thomas Jefferson that political parties eliminate stability in the government and cause tension.
On October1, 1995, Congress and President Bill Clinton passed an emergency spending bill.  This bill would allow the government to function past the October first deadline.  The new deadline set by this bill was Monday, November 13.
	
This temporary bill would last until the new deadline.  If the thirteen essential bills were not passed, then the government would begin shutdown.  Starting with the release of all nonessential personnel and ending with the president of the United States.
October 1- 1962 was the first time the United States government shutdown.  This shutdown lasted for two days.  Then all the government employees were reinstated to their jobs and paid back pay for their time out of work.  November 13, 1995 was the second time the government began shutdown. 800,000 workers in the United States lost their jobs on Tuesday. 500 employees were from Fort Jackson Army base, 400 from Charleston Naval base, and 14 from Shaw Air Force base.  Many other employees were laid off from South Carolina's Strom Thurrnond building . About 2000 workers in all were laid off from South Carolina.  Other government nonessentials that were shutdown are The Smithsonian Museum, the Grand Canyon, food stamps, passports, and veteran's disability benefits.
Many Americans do not realize the seriousness of the situation.  Why did all
this happen? Well, it goes back to who has the most power.  Newt Gingrich and Bob Dole (republicans) control congress and Bill Clinton (democrats) control the presidency.  Both the republicans and the democrats say the other is wrong and that the other party will cause the downfall of the united States.  So who's right? Neither side is right.Both  sides were stubborn like two kids figthing on a playground.

Both congress and the president submitted a plan to balance the national budget.  In order for the bill to pass and be made into a law, the president and congress must agree on it.  The president has the right to veto congress' bill and congress can veto the president's bill.  President Bill Clinton sent his plan to congress first.  The bill planned to balance the budget in ten years.  Congress vetoed it.

Congress then sent their bill to the president for his approval.  Congress bill planned to balance the budget 'm seven years.  The president did the same and vetoed their bill.  Both sides then proceeded to argue and call each other names, 1, the November deadline had passed.  So who won this battle for power? No one.  Who lost? The American people who lost their jobs.
I feel the American people have been unfairly made to pay for the governments mistakes.  How does this effect the ordinary person who is not supported by government money? Well since thousands of people are out of jobs with no money, then they cannot afford to buy many items that are not necessary.  This is bad for the retail industry and therefore bad for the American economy.  This could cause a depression that therefore effects the American people who are not supported by the government.  I feel that the government was established to prevent this situations and others of national problems from happening.  Instead they debate the issues and forget about the American people.
	November 18,- 1995,-Congress and the President formed a pact and decided to work on the issue of the government shutdown.  This pact will last until December 15, 1995.  All the government employees were then reinstated in their 'jobs.  TheShutdown' lasted six days.  So is the shutdown really over? I, say
no. This pact between  the United States Congress and the President is just another
name for an emergency spending bill.  This bill only stalls the problem.  If the government does not pass the thirteen essential bills by the new December deadline, then they will be right back to where they started and the government will continue shutdown.



<ICLE-US-SCU-0001.3>

The foundation of this nation, and the world as a whole, has crumbled greatly.  One the most potent solvents has been the practice of premarital sex.  Premarital sex in itself, physically, does little or no harm in its action.  The real problems come soon after and have long ranging affects.  It is without any doubt that premarital sex is overall destructive because it leads to the lost of respect for women, the birth of illegitimate communities, and even the spread of sexually transmitted disease.  Science and government have tried to curb many of these problems, but unfortunately, they never come to the realization that the only way to accomplish that goal is to cut down on have sex before marriage.
Premarital sex is a problem which did not begin yesterday.  It didn't begin ten, twenty, or thirty-five years ago either, but premarital sex has truly changed during that time.  The major change, of course, coming thirty-five years ago with the start of the "Sexual Revolution" in the sixties.  This revolution brought about a sexual awareness.  No longer was sex going to be a dark issue.  Men and women became more educated about their bodies, how to prevent disease, how to better plan their families, and how to perform better in their sexual roles.  Other reforms in gender and racial equality helped keep the revolution rolling.  Unfortunately, as with many things, all the good things brought about by greater sexual education had there bad side affects.  Side affects like the lowering of moral standards and the loss of person responsibility have made sexual revolution buzz words for when America headed down the toilet.  People were given power over their sex and their sexuality, but they lost control of themselves.  That power has corrupted people into thinking they can have it all for free.  As far as premarital sex is involved, the idea is that "the reward would be granted before the price was paid, and if this reward were the only thing desired why should one pay the price of marriage after enjoying intercourse" (Reiss 175) has become prominent.  While it is true that sex is not the only thing involved in marriage, other than a legal commitment to live together, there are few other differences between being engaged and being married.  Now that sex has changed, weddings have turned more into ritual parties to get free stuff from friends and wedding night consummations have become post-game shows which only review past highlights.
"While the sexual revolution of the 1960's may have make premarital sex more socially acceptable, people have not necessarily become better equipped to deal with this sexual freedom.  One sign of this is the alarming increase in the rate of sexually transmitted diseases" (Gardner 360).  Luckily, modern science has developed prevention devices and treatments for most sexually transmitted diseases.  Unfortunately, far to many people either have not been informed of these innovations or they are just plain stubborn.  Admittedly, if two people enter a life long monogamous relationships, sexually transmitted diseases are 99.91% ruled out (AIDS can be contacted through blood transfusion).  But in the survey taken in the Janus Report on Sexual Behaviour,  32% of men and 39% of women have had 11 to 30 different partners.  Such a stat tends to lead to the notion that such long tern monogamous relationships are quite rare.  "And, such permissiveness should lead to high risk of disease because of the constant change of partners" (Reiss 157).
The other main physical and fiscal effect of premarital sex is pregnancy.  Some of these pregnancies are unwanted, but more and more are being planed.  Pregnancy in the so called "old days" was truly a shameful experience for an unwed mother.  Some women used to suddenly take long trips out of town and then reappear in about a years time, Many of these women gave up there children for adoption, "In Roe v. Wade (1973), the US Supreme Court ruled that the Fourteenth Amendment right of privacy was broad enough to protect a woman's decision to have an abortion" (Janus 14).  The new option made those unexpected disappearances less needed.  Abortion, however, offends many who see it as an immoral slaughter of babies because of a woman sexual irresponsibility.  Unfortunately for those same people, the problem of abortion has gained a tag-team partner in the formation of the illegitimate family.  Yes, the Norman Rockwell mother, father, and 2.5 children (. 5 being the dog of course) families are din-finishing in number.  In fact, "38% of single men and 45% if single women would like to become parent even if they never marry" (Janus 13 5).  Those stats would lead to less structured relies, Now, since "over 90% of people believe the family is the most important institution in society" (Janus 56), the natural thing to infer is that the idea of what the family is has changed.  This new idea family, however, is producing children which have a higher rate of crime and lower educational prowess.  To be frank, these families are often dysfunctional or at lest less effective for all evolved when compared with the former version of Mr.  Rockwell's.  Of course all of this can be avoided, but "19% of single men and 23% of single women still use no contraception" (Janus 205).
Even though the emotional and social affects of premarital sex are harder calculate than the physical affects, they are in no way harder to see.  The  words ladies and gentlemen are said at the beginning of many a speech.  However, those words apply less and less to the audience.  It is becoming more common to hear a woman referred to as a whore, bitch, or piece of ass rather than a lady.  Men are being called pigs, dogs and "players".  Premarital sex is usually in a setting where both parties are trying to get the most out of the situation without giving of themselves totally (marriage is a total commitment while sex is not).  The parts which the parties always share during premarital sex are their physical bodies and their not so emotional passions.  Unfortunately, through the growing practice of premarital sex, those are becoming the only parts of a person being valued at all.  Both sexes are being depersonalized into objects of most of sex.  What better way to depersonalize than to refer to only in physical feature (piece of ass) or in service to one's self (whore).  Admittedly, women bare the brunt of this, as can be seen in beer commercials and cheap late night movies.  The women in these productions usually are portrayed as having larger brazier cup sizes than IQ's.  Unlike depersonalization, the disrespect from the opposite sex is much more equally shared.  While men disrespectfully call women bitches and whores because they can experience the most coveted difference between the sexes without making any kind of commitment, women disrespect men by calling them dogs because they can be so easily controlled or financially manipulated by a women sexual appearance or sexual activity.  There's even that feminist saying, "every man is a possible rapist" which depicts men as animals which can go out of control at any time.  However, the most alarming aspect of this situation is not how each sex sees the other, but how each sex sees itself For example, I would venture to say that more men are seeing physical features of women on TV, at restaurants, in classrooms, and at work that their father didn't see until his wedding night.  While the controlling of men by women can easily be seen in the literal "BOOM" in the number X-rated cable channels and 1-900 phone sex numbers in recent years.  Both sexes are conforming into the stereotypes applied to them by the other sex.  Premarital sex has lead to women becoming the sexual objects some men say they are, while men are becoming the animalistic sex hunters and purchasers women make them out to be.  "Proving sex is as least as much in the mind as in the body" (Schur 66).
Premarital sex is an activity which has been around since the start of the so called "oldest profession".  And unfortunately, no end is in sight.  Premarital sex is a problem which will not be fixed because many do not see it as a problem.  And as most will say, you can't fix the problem until you admit there is one.  Once premarital sex is seen as a problem, the only way to fix it is to return to those moral and Christian values which help people best function in their societies.  And lastly, to use the God given human attribute of reason to overcome basic human sexual and emotional instincts.



<ICLE-US-SCU-0002.3>

Who's number 1? Who's the national champion? Who should be number 1? Who should be the national champion? These are the same questions that college football has to face every year and every year these questions seem to be getting more difficult to answer.  The college football polls don't seem to have the answer to these questions because there is always some debated over who should be ranked number 1 even after the bowl games.  However, college football can develop a playoff system and keep their bowl games at the same time.  The simple solution to solving one of college football's most complicated situations, the selection of a national championship team, is to have a playoff system in which the top teams compete for the top spot.  A playoff system will generate more revenue, create more excitement for the fans because they will be able to see some of their dream match-ups, and most importantly, it will determine a true champion and a true number 1 for college football.
In the 1992-93 college football season, the University of Alabama won the national championship but not without some type of argument from other fans and poll writers.  Before Alabama even played the University of Miami in the 1993 Sugar Bowl with the winner earning the national title, there were some poll writers and fans arguing that it should be Florida State and Miami playing in the Fiesta Bowl for the national title.  Florida State had 1 loss in their record and that was to the Miami Hurricanes.  Many poll writers and fans were saying that Florida State was arguably playing the best football in the country at the end of the regular season and they believed that Florida State should have jumped Alabama in the polls from number 3 to number 2 so that they could play Miami for the national championship.  Some poll writers had a good argument that Florida State could have jumped Alabama in the polls because near the end of the regular season, Alabama struggled to the Florida Gators, a team that Florida State dismantled a week earlier.  But the poll writers couldn't overlook the fact that Florida State had one loss while Alabama was still undefeated.  Another reason the poll writers couldn't really Florida State ahead of Alabama was that college football had installed a bowl alliance which would try to match two undefeated teams in #l vs. #2 game.
College football also hoped that this game would match the nation's only two unbeaten teams in a national championship showdown.  However, there was another problem with pitting Miami vs. Alabama in the Sugar Bowl for the national championship.  The Texas A&M Aggies were the only other unbeaten team in the nation and they were arguing that they deserved a shot at the national title also.  Texas A&M wanted to play Miami in the Cotton Bowl because the Aggies were obligated to going to going to the Cotton Bowl since they were in the Southwest Conference Champion.  But Texas A&M was being ignored by many poll writers and fans because they played in a weak conference and their schedule wasn't very strong.  But how can you take a team's chance of winning the national title just because of the conference they're in and the teams they played on their schedule.  You have to play the teams in your conference and going 11-0 in college football isn't easy.  This was unfair to Texas A&M because they had done the best they could do and they couldn't get enough respect or recognition to earn a shot at the national championship.  So Texas A&M had to settle for Notre Dame in the Cotton Bowl.
But everything worked out after the bowl games were played on New Year's Day.  Texas A&M was whipped by Notre Dame 28-3 and Alabama destroyed Miami 34-13.  So Alabama ended up being the nation's only unbeaten team and the national championship.  The only other debate that was left was whether or not Alabama had a better team than Florida State.  The only way we could have answered this question is with a playoff system.
In the 1993-94 college football season, the debate over who should be the national champion really got complicated.  Four teams had strong cases to claim that they should have been number 1 or number 2 and playing for the national championship on New Year's Day.  The Florida State Seminoles were ranked number 1 in the country and 10-1, their only loss was 31-24 to Notre Dame, but no one else came close to beating the Seminoles.  The Nebraska Cornhuskers were ranked number 2 in the country and they were undefeated at 11-0.  The West Virginia Mountaineers were ranked number 3 and were unbeaten at 11-0.  Last, the Notre Dame Fighting Irish were ranked number 4 and their only loss was to
Boston College.
West Virginia wanted to play Nebraska in the Orange Bowl for the national title because they were the nation's only two unbeaten teams.  Notre Dame wanted to play Florida State in the Fiesta Bowl because they thought they had prove to the rest of the country that they and Florida State were the two best teams in the country.  West Virginia was getting very little respect from the poll writers because they played in the Big East Conference, a relatively weak football conference, and the only quality team that the Mountaineers could vouch that they had beaten were the Miami Hurricanes.  Nebraska was getting a little more respect because they played in the Big Eight Conference and the Big Eight had two other quality football teams in Colorado and Oklahoma.  Another thing that Nebraska had for its advantage that West Virginia didn't have was a history for having great football teams.  But Florida State and Notre Dame were the two teams getting all the hype and recognition to be playing for the national championship and that's because they had played one of the greatest games in college football history during the regular season.
So on New Year's Day, Notre Dame played Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl, Florida State played Nebraska in the Orange Bowl, and West Virginia played Florida in the Sugar Bowl.  Many people considered the Florida State-Nebraska game to be for the national championship because it pitted #l vs. #2.  West Virginia could have gone to the Cotton Bowl to play Texas A&M, but they thought
a win over a quality Florida team could bolster their argument that they should be number 1 and the national champion.
The national championship picture cleared up a little after the bowl games were played, but not too much.  Notre Dame beat Texas A&M 24-21, Florida State beat Nebraska 18-17, and West Virginia was blown out by Florida 41-7.  Nebraska and West Virginia were eliminated from the national championship picture with their losses, but there was still some argument over whether, Florida State or Notre Dame should have the title.  Florida State won the title outright, but their was some controversy over how Florida State could win the national championship over Notre Dame when both teams had one loss and Notre Dame beat Florida State during the regular season.
Sports Illustrated's Rick Reilly said, 11 How can you give the title to Notre Dame when they were whipped by Boston College and gave up 41 pts. in the process." 11 A team that can't whip a Southwest Conference team, Texas A&M, in a bowl can't be number 11(18).  He also said that "Florida State can't have the title because they lost to Notre Dame in a game in which they were supposed to prove that they were the best team in the country and that they played liked chunky soup in their bowl game"(18).  So in conclusion Rick Reilly said, 11 A squad that truly deserves to be etched in history as the finest of 1993 .... Nobody"(19).
Usually the first tie breaker in all sports when confronted with a situation such as this is head to head competition and if college football had implied this rule, Notre Dame would have won
	the national title.  So who was the true number 1 and true national champion in the 1993-94 college football season, Florida State or Notre Dame.  Again, the only way to answer this question fairly is to have a playoff system.
Now the end of the 1994 college football season was absolutely ridiculous.  I think that this season alone speaks enough to say that college football should have a playoff system.  The Nebraska Cornhuskers, 13-0, won the national championship in the '94 season over the Penn State Nittany Lions who were 12-0.  Now this situation doesn't make any kind of sense.  Nebraska was playing Miami in the Orange Bowl and Penn State was playing Oregon in the Rose Bowl.  Now if one of these teams loses and the other wins, then there's really no dispute over who's the national champion.  But if both teams win, you've got a major dilemma.  There was no way that Nebraska and Penn State could have played each other because their conferences wouldn't have allowed them to go to different bowl games.  Nebraska is in the Big Eight Conference and Big Eight champion has to go to the Orange Bowl.  Penn State was in the Big Ten Conference and the Big Ten champion has to go the Rose Bowl.
Both teams won their bowl games on.  Nebraska struggled to get past Miami 24-17 while Penn State whipped up on Oregon 38-20.  However, Nebraska still won the title outright due to the fact that they played a higher ranked team in a bowl.  Miami was ranked number 3 and Oregon was ranked number 11.  But how can you justify giving the national championship to one team when there
are two teams that are unbeaten.  Penn State did the best any college football team could do and that's win all of your games.  And not only did Penn State beat all of their opponents, but they destroyed most of them.  No one really came close to beating Penn State during the regular season.
But just like every other college football team in the nation, Penn State has no control over who they play in bowl game.  Nebraska just happen to get the better luck of the draw by having to play a higher ranked team in a bowl game.  This was unfair and unjustly to Penn State to not at least have a share of the national championship for all of their hard work and great accomplishments.  They did the best they could do and still were robbed.
Nebraska's Tom Osborne is in favor of a playoff system and he said, "It's a shame Nebraska and Penn State didn't meet for the championship." 11 People in college football ought to be smart enough to get the number 1 and number 2 teams together' (C3).  Penn State's Joe Paterno said, "I always wanted a playoff system- that's nothing new to me(C6).
Again, if there was a college playoff system, there wouldn't have been any argument over who was the real national champion in the '94 college football season, Nebraska or Penn State.
The bowl games pay out a good amount of money to the colleges that attend their bowls, but a playoff system would generate more revenue because there would be more games played and the fan excitement would be unbelievable.  Fans would be packing the stadiums to see some of their dream match-ups.  College football would also make more money from television because the ratings would be skyrocket due to a playoff system.  Most of the time, the bowl season is only time of the year when the fans could see more interconference match-ups, but with a playoff system, there would be more interconference games for the
fans to see.
College football should have a 16 team playoff system at the end of the regular season and use their bowl games for neutral sites.  College football should take the top 16 teams in the country, pair them up into two brackets, and let them play it out.  The reason it should be only 16 teams is so that the playoffs won't last so long and 16 is a fair number to have when selecting teams.  The bowl games should be the neutral sites so that the bowls will still have their games and so that no one plays on their home field.  The playoff system will last four weeks because each week a different set of games will be played and on the fourth week, there would be two teams left.  The other teams that do not qualify for the playoff system can go to a regular bowl game.  These bowl games would be played on other days from the playoff games so that they can be shown on
television also.
Two of college football's premier coaches, Florida's Steve Spurrier and Florida State's Bobby Bowden, were asked about a playoff system during a college football halftime show on ABC.  Florida's Steve Spurrier said that he has always been in favor of a playoff system.  Florida State's Bobby Bowden said that he was in favor of a playoff system, but seemed a little more reluctant because he felt that the college football season was too long and a playoff system would make the season even longer.
The reason a lot of people are against a playoff system is because they don't want to see the bowls go and they think that the season will be too long.  The bowls have been associated with college football so long that it might not seem right without the bowl games.  Some people also think that college football would lose more money with a playoff system because you won't have the bowls there to pay the schools.
But which ever way you look at it, college football needs a playoff system because the debate over who's number 1 and who's the national champion is getting ridiculous and out of control.  Sooner or later, college football will probably have to resort to some type of playoff system so that it will be able to fairly determine a true national champion.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0003.3>


Alcoholism is a growing problem in the United States today that affects all ages.  Too many students fight alcoholism in high school and college environment.  This problem could easily be curtailed by lowering the drinking age from twenty-one to eighteen.  Changing the drinking age from twenty-one to eighteen would lower the amount of crimes among young adults, encourage a more responsible approach to alcohol in the United States and improve the health of the nation.  Allowing alcohol consumption at age eighteen would change the way America viewed alcohol-use as a society.  Lowering the drinking age would gradually change society, and encourage a more mature management of alcohol.
Lowering the drinking age would decrease the amount of crime among youths.  Many youths break the law every time they attempt to buy or consume alcohol.  Lowering the drinking age would allow youths to buy alcohol and not break the law doing it. on most college campuses, alcohol is involved in most violent behavior or crimes (Rick Finley@rfinleygmail.vt.edu). Lowering the drinking age would allow college campuses to spend more time reviewing education instead of drinking policies.  Today, many colleges are experiencing major problems with underage drinking.  Many colleges are struggling with enforcing these policies (WWW.mis.duke.edu/Task-forces/Alcohol/Alcohol-chart.html).
Lowering the drinking age would allow colleges to spend more time reforming education programs and aiding students.  A high amount of underage drinking occurs in the high school and college environments (US Department of Health and Human Services).  Allowing alcohol consumption at age eighteen would cut back on reform programs because less people would need these programs.  Most candidates for reform programs are under the national drinking age (US Department of Justice 3-62).  Eighteen- year old Is would not feel a need to strike back at society for "lost rights." Adolescents are in an awkward place in society, being between childhood and adulthood (Newman 506).  Allowing eighteen-year olds to drink would include eighteen-year olds in society and make them less likely to cause crimes as a way of expressing their anger.  Many young adults that drink, drink uncontrollably and in large environments (Newman 506).  Giving youths back their privileges of drinking will allow them to fit in and feel included in society.
Lowering the drinking age would encourage a responsible approach to alcohol in the United States.  Giving back drinking rights to eighteen-year old's would make them realize their privileges.  Irresponsibility in drinking and driving caused the implementation of the National Minimum Drinking Act (Netscape.Young Drinkers Homepage 2).  Eighteen-year old's did not act responsibly when they had the right to drink.  When Congress passed the National Minimum Drinking Act in 1984, all eighteen, nineteen, and twenty-year old's lost their right to consume and purchase alcohol.  Eighteen, nineteen, and twenty-year old's have had their rights restricted for eleven years.  Once these rights are given back, young adults will act responsibly.  In high school and college environments, most teens are drawn to the drinking scene because it is new and glamorous.  Allowing consumption at age eighteen will change the way young adults view the drinking scene.  The whole idea of drinking will not seem as glamorous if young adults have been drinking at age eighteen.  Most young adults in college are between the ages of eighteen and twenty-one.  Drinking will be normal and ordinary to eighteen- year old's, and not a new and fun environment.  Lowering the drinking age would decrease the amount of underage drinking among college students.  Today, eighteen-year old's are responsible enough to enter into contracts, be sued, can be drafted into the military, and die for their country (nttp.www.kfu.com/nsayer). If eighteen-year old's can be drafted and assigned adult roles in the United States, then they should be allowed to enjoy all adult privileges.
A lower drinking age would improve the health of the nation.  Binge drinking is a common problem among high school and college students (US Department of Health and Human Services 2).  A study taken by the Public Health Service showed that 40% of college students engage in binge drinking regularly.  When most students drink, they are in environments where alcohol is the reason for the gathering or party.  Alcohol is a scarce object for young adults between ages eighteen and twenty.  Most students binge drink when they drink because it is hard to acquire alcohol.
Lowering the drinking age would allow youth to acquire and decrease the amount of binge drinking.  Lowering the drinking age would decrease alcoholism in the United States in the long run.  Many Americans see drinking as a pastime, and as the center of social life.  Alcohol is the "forbidden fruit" among teens.  Many teens drink to feel rebellious and to do something cool.  Alcohol is an addictive drug in today's society.  Alcoholism is a problem today because of the way Americans view drinking.  Lowering the drinking age would allow eighteen-year old's access to alcohol, and not break the law to obtain it.  Alcoholism is not a problem in other countries because of the alcohol is viewed in their societies.  In Canada, alcohol is served with meals, regardless of a person's age (Rick Finley@rfinley@mail.vt.edu). Alcoholism is controlled because there is a mature approach to drinking.  In other countries, alcohol is a beverage served at the party, not the reason for the party.  Lowering the drinking age would allow society to get a grip on alcohol.  The effects of lowering the drinking age would not be seen in America immediately.  Allowing consumption of alcohol at age eighteen would drastically change the way Americans felt about drinking.
Lowering drinking age from twenty-one to eighteen would effect the United States in a number of ways.  Alcoholism is a problem today because of the way it is viewed in America's society.  Lowering the drinking age would decrease the amount of crime among young adults because many would not break a law trying to obtain alcohol.  Responsible drinking would be encourage by lowering the drinking law.  Young adults would drink responsibly and safely if the drinking age were to be lowered.  The overall health of Americans who drink would improve if the drinking age was lowered.  The common problem of binge drinking would be cured if the drinking age were lowered.  Lowering the drinking age would impact the country in a number of ways, and change the way society viewed alcohol.  Changing the drinking age would overall increase responsibility amoung young adults, which would greatly affect the nation in the long run.


<ICLE-US-SCU-0004.3>



With their racy topics and their spirited audeinces, daily talk shows have become a part of many television viewers lives.  Many viewers, young and old tune in to watch guest panelist and audience members lash out angrily and agressively at one another.  A percentage of people feel this type of programming, labeled trash t.v.. is vulgar. and inappropriate for television and should be pulled from the airwaves.  Many faithful viewers. feel these talk shows are harmless and entertaining.  These differences in opinions leads to numerous questions concerning the purpose and benefits, if any, of these talk shows.
Many people feel that talk shows, trashy or not. are for entertainment purposes only and should not be downplayed because of their candid themes.  The host of the show allows the public to dispute and air thier grievances. find help and solutions to their problems, and share positive and negative feedback about many issues affecting the world today Many of these programs provide their viewers with helpful information about heath, financial matters. family counseling. and social issues that they may not have been aware of before.

People are invited to write or call in to the shows to discuss their personal lives with millions of viewers.  The topics discussed on these shows consist of sibling rivalries, family fueding, and disagreements between friends, neighbors. and lovers.  The idea of each show is to build up the topic to a level where tempers may flare out of control and increasing the audiences' interest in the topic, making the discussions hotter.  The host dies deep into the minds of the guests to bring out deep, dark secrets about each of the guest.  With the host searching for hidden secrets. the tension between the guests grows.  This may lead to arguments and fights among the guests. audience members. and even the host! Members of the studio audience cheer on these actions making the discussion much greater than it started out to be.  This type of action is what keeps millions of viewers on the edge of their seats day in and day out. tuning in for another exciting episode.  But there is a flip side to talk shows.  There are moments when flying fist and profane language turn into tears of joy or sadness. and compassionate hugs.  These guest appear on the show to mend differences between each other. find solitude in what one may see as a dead end situation. or to give hope to those looking for something better and brighter than the dark skeletons taking over their daily lives.  Many times these shows are overshadowed and
overlooked	by those naysayers who turn their heads  the moment thay tune into a talk show with a homosexual  couple, a homeless family seeking help or a criminal
looking to do some better than terrorize his nieghbor.  Is it because they want to shield themselves from what most people see as reality? Is it because talk shows show a part of the world they do not understand and are not .willing to know more about?
Not all talk shows have a picture perfect ending.  Controversy has been the main course when dealing with many explicit topics.  One recent incident added to that list when the beginning of the show ended with
one  gruesome  setback.     The topic dealt with secret crushes
and according to the media. a neighbor wanted to reveal to his neighbor that he had a crush on him. The catch is one guest has no idea who the  crush is because it is a secret.  With the unsuspecting neighbor having no idea the guy next door was about to reveal to him that he was his crush. he became angry and murdered him.  The show never aired because of the tragic and deadly ending.
It is both the responsibility of the guest appearing on the show, and the host, to be aware of what may occur as a result of appearing on a talk show.  It is more of a responsibility of the guests to exercise their right not to partake in the show as well as put their, character on the line.  The guest are willing. to put their business in the public eye at their own risk and :at whatever cost.  People should take into consideration what may happen as a result of appearing on a talk show before making their television debut.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0005.3>

A friend of mine, a senior in her last semester here at.  USC, registered for a math class that she needed to fill a prerequisite for her major.  She bought the book for the course and went to the first class.  Her        professor was a native of another country and spoke very little English.  The professor could hardly speak English well enough to explain her syllabus.  My friend thought, "Hey, math is a universal language.  It s no big deal if the professor doesn't speak English as long as she knows her Calculus. This opinion would seem rational because mathematics concepts are performed the same in any language and hold the same logic in any tongue.  A couple of classes later, when the course progressed to become more difficult with its introduction of new concepts, my friend began-to have difficulty with new material she hadn't covered in high school.  Along with other students in her class, she began. To ask questions aloud during the class period.  The professor couldn't answer a majority of the questions because she couldn't explain the procedures in English.  The teacher knew what a denominator and a limit were, b t U she didn't understand how to say them in English and she didn't know what she was being asked of the students who-,@ spoke English.  My friend arranged to meet with the professor during office hours to ask questions personally.

During the appointment, the professor still couldn't communicate the correct working procedure for the problems.  Luckily, my friend still had time to drop the class.  She called to register for another section of the same course and unluckily, all of the options were full and unavailable to take.  She really needed the course for her major her only alternatives were to continue taking the course from the teacher who couldn't speak English or take the course in summer school.  If she took summer school as an option, she wouldn't graduate on time.
Students of the University of South Carolina, like students at colleges and universities across the nation, stumble upon a variety of difficulties in their classes frequently.  Students confront problems with teacher-student relationships, grading scales, course difficulty, lack of preparation, and many other aspects of course work.  One uncontrollable obstacle students at USC face, like my friend, is professors who don't speak English well enough to teach their pupils subject matter.  The students have to drop the class, with possibly no alternative section to choose because they fill up so quickly at a large 1, university, or try to squander through complicated material alone.  They feel it is clearly inhibiting and unjust, especially at a public college.  I completely agree that before a professor should be allowed domain over a classroom at USC, he should be able to speak English well enough to teach his specific discipline to his students.  

The task of professors is to teach and share their expertise with others.  It is very beneficial to a student to have access to an authority on their subject matter.  Students can learn new ideas and short cuts to solutions from their professors.  Professors, giving trivial and specific information on a subject, sometimes like no teacher's aid can, will invoke the student to ponder-finer aspects of subject matter.  The student can learn a wealth of information from an expert.  The key is for the expert to be able to communicate his points clearly so that students can grasp the knowledge-.  Points must be made accessible to the students in order for communication between the students and the professor to take place.  A professor who speaks a different language other than his students can't teach them unless he has a sufficient amount of knowledge of the students' language.
Students come to school with the hope of furthering their education so that they may one day practice a career in the field of their major.  Students can read and study textbook theories and examples, but it helps them to have access to guides.  These guides are their professors.  They pay not only for books every semester, but for tuition.  Tuition money is supposed to pay for the professors to teach the students.  Students who pay for their tuition expect professors to teach them in return.  When professors can't speak English, they can't communicate with English speaking students ; therefore they cannot teach them.  Students need someone to guide them through wordy material in a book.  Students need someone to lead labs and give them hands on experience.  When the student is paying for his needs, for what reason should he not have them fulfilled? When a person buys an item from a store, he pays and receives the item he paid for.  When students pay tuition, they should also receive what they're paying for-a teacher who can teach them.  Sometimes a teacher's assistant can substitute for a professor, and this is what should happen if a professor can't speak a language well enough to teach.  This is one solution, but we are confronted with another problem.  Even though teaching aides can help, students don't benefit from them as much as they do a professor.  A professor has a Ph.D. and is a trained expert.  Students need to be taught by professors when they are taking advanced courses that apply to their major field of study.  A professor is an asset to upper class students finishing courses for their degrees-.
The Board of Trustees at USC should closely examine this problem.  The university requires that teacher's assistants speak English well before they can teach.  There is a rigorous program that applicants hoping to become teacher's assistants must pass.  However, professors don't have to go through any program to prove that can speak an ample amount of English to teach.  Once a person has a Ph.D., he can apply to USC for a teaching position without having to prove he knows English well enough to teach English speaking students.  The school board needs to look

more closely at their reasons for letting professors teach here.  Funding for research that the Ph.D.s will do is vital to the university, but it should not be more important than educating students who pay tuition to this university.  If the university is going to go through the trouble of getting Ph.D.s from other nations to teach, they should be more selective with whom they choose.  They should make the Ph.D.s go through a program similar to the one graduate teaching assistants must pass.  The Ph.D.s who prove to know a sufficient amount of English should be hired.  The only solution to the problem is to make the Ph.D.s prove they know English like graduate assistants from other nations
must do.
Students are here to get the best education possible.  If they are paying for it, they should not be denied or inconvenienced by the system that allows professors to not speak the language his students do.  The university should make the needs of the student a larger priority than it currently is.  The university could still keep its research funding while meeting the students' needs if Ph.D.s chosen to teach had to compete and pass a difficult program to prove their knowledge of the English language.  Being fair to the student and giving him the education he pays for is the only appropriate thing for the university to do.


<ICLE-US-SCU-0006.3>


Welfare has been a hot issue in the United States lately.  "Everyone agrees that the welfare system should be changed, but 'how, is the big question" (Silverstein 14).  Democrats in the White House seem to think that more education and training for jobs within a two year time limit is the key.  Republicans in Congress, on the other hand, seem to think perhaps shorter time limits and cuts in spending on some welfare programs would be the answer (Silverstein 13-15).  However, the heatedly argued welfare issue can be solved by combining the ideas of both parties.  The welfare program would be successful if it changed to include a time limit, training programs that are required, less government funding for certain welfare programs, and abolishing the law that states that women should get more money for having more children.
Both parties agree on having time limits and training programs so that welfare recipients can find jobs (Economist 33).  It is important for recipients to work for their welfare check so that they do not become dependent on the system.  After all, the

purpose of welfare should be to help recipients in a tough time, not support them for the rest of their life (Sliverstein 13).
Training programs should be an essential part of the welfare program.  "fourteen million people survive off welfare payments,' (Silverstein 14) and by making recipients participate "in well-designed welfare-to-work programs or training programs can reduce, long-term welfare dependency" (Economist 33).  These training programs would help most women who have been on welfare for years.  "These women have so little work experience that they have to rehearse with social workers to remember to say ,good-bye, and thank you, at the end of an interview" (Whitman
30).

In Chicago, a highly regarded training program, Project match, has given a mix of education, training, counseling, and job-placement to its clients and has gotten half of them off of welfare. (Economist 33)

Another success story of these programs is that of Princess Rowell.  She has been on welfare for nine years and lost half of her 517 dollar welfare payment for refusing to look for a job.  She then entered a highschool equivalency diploma program and does her homework every night (whitman 36-37).  She is still receiving payments but is also receiving an education that may help her to someday get out of the welfare program.

	
If training programs were enforced and spread across the United States the country would have less people on welfare and more people being able to provide for and support their own family.  An incentive, as Democrats proposed, for the success of training programs would be to cut off recipients, benefits if they did not participate (Silverstein 14).
Time limits should also be a necessary factor in the welfare program.  "Welfare has become a way of life for some people and it scares them to have to get out of the system" (Sliverstein 14).  Some welfare case workers are even dealing with third-generation recipients (Silverstein 14).
The Democrats propose that a two-year time limit should be placed on what they call a second chance or being able to receive welfare.  If the mother fails to enter training programs or find a job within two years her benefits would be cut off (Silverstein 14).  "The Republicans would place a two-year time limit on receiving Aid to Families with Dependent Children and allow only five years of welfare benefits in a life time,, (Silverstein 14).  If these time limits were enforced there would no chance for recipients to become dependent on the welfare system or make it their way of life.
Another solution to the welfare challenge would be to cut welfare spending.  This could be done by passing the Personal Responsibility Act, supported by the Republicans.  "This act would reduce welfare spending by fifty-nine billion dollars between 1996 and 199911 (Silverstein 14).  This would save the government a lot of money and make people support themselves.
One such program that would be abolished or drastically reduced by this cut is Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) (Silverstein 14).  "Aid to Families with Dependent Children sends checks continually to parents as long as they remain poor, unemployed, and unmarried" (Economist 33).  "On the average AFDC recipients have more children than nonwelfare parents" (Del Valle 44).  This means that mothers on welfare are having more babies at the governments expense (Silverstein 15).  "Cutting or reducing AFDC in the welfare program would save both the state and federal government eleven billion dollars" (Silverstein 14).  This would also end ',the cash incentive for mothers to have babies" (Del Valle 44).  Another program that

	
would be ended due to this cut would be aid to mothers younger than eighteen.  "This would end payments for 4.5 million children,' (Silverstein 15).  "Studies have shown that the younger the woman is when she get on welfare, the more difficult it is for her to get out of the systems (Del Valle 44).
"Welfare is part of the problem and not the solution" (Silverstein 14).  Proper actions need to be taken so that the government and in turn tax payers do not support the same welfare recipients for long periods of time.  The welfare problem could easily be solved if both parties would quit butting heads for power.  A simple compromise would solve the problem that the United States has been faced with for many years.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0007.3>


Violence on television can be seen throughout the many channels that cable has to offer.  With an average national TV viewing time of 7 1/4 hours daily, the prevalence of violence in broadcasts is a serious concern.  Television programming in the United States is considered the most violent in advanced industrialized nations (Hepburn 1).  Many children watch violent tv shows because the action thrills them and can sometimes cause the child to become violent.  Violence is common in TV entertainment-- the dramas that portray stories about crime, psychotic murderers, police cases, emergency services, international terrorism, and war (Hepburn 1).  Television violence is prevalent in the United States and some people disagree with its effects on children.
The V-chip is an electrical device that blocks out violent television shows.  Some people, such as the Senate Commerce Committee, are not satisfied with it.  The Senate Commerce Committee approved bills creating a partial ban on TV violence and a so-called report card that would identify stations carrying violent programming and the advertisers sponsoring it.  The bills would apply to broadcasting and cable (Stern 1).
Some of the proposals to antiviolence are as follows: the Senate V-chip, the House V-chip, a Technology Fund, a Violence Safe Harbor, and a Violence Report Card.  These proposals could work if Congress had some support.  The National Association of Broadcasters accused the Senate of "piling on a stream of proposals to build up an unprecedented federal censorship bureaucracy".  The NAB also insisted that broadcasters already have responded to concerns over violence on television (Stern 1).
Some television shows show violence because it appeals to adult viewers.  If a certain plot involves a murder, then the murder must happen.  Some people may not want the actual murder to be shown, but that is up to whomever is writing the television show.  Many made for television movies say that it may contain violent scenes and that viewer discretion is advised, but how many parents actually watch television with their teenager?
An exhaustive examination of the broadcast networks' programming during the 1995-1995 season has concluded that sinister combat violence' pervades a significant number of Saturday-morning cartoons (Jensen 1).  How much violence is there? The most violent cartoons are 'Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles', 'Spider Man', and some 'Bugs Bunny' episodes with Elmer Fudd.  As for the shows containing sinister combat violence, well that is strictly up to the viewer to decide.
The cause for television violence is to add texture to the show and not to poison children's minds.  The infamous V-chip may stop some shows from being shown to children, but one day that child will see violence and they will have to deal with it, rationally or not.


<ICLE-US-SCU-0008.3>

The easy availability of guns leads to unnecessary violence and thousands of avoidable deaths.  Because criminals in the United States can easily obtain guns, robberies and other crimes can lead to victims' deaths.  The widespread availability of guns increases the chances that any angry encounter may lead to death.  Registering guns and requiring a waiting period to check prospective buyers backgrounds will help prevent crime.  These rules reduce the likelihood that a person will buy a gun and murder someone on impulse.  The Constitution does not prohibit gun control.  Most courts--including the U.S. Supreme Court--have ruled that the Second Amendment only guarantees states the right to maintain a militia.  Possession of guns by individuals is not part of the right "to keep and bear arms." Controlling and regulating guns is constitutional and would be an effective way to reduce crime.
Gun Control is an issue of Constitutional Rights, centering around the Second Amendment.  After the experiences of the American Revolution, the first Congress wanted to ensure that people could protect themselves by serving as armed citizens in the militia and that

citizens could not be forced to house soldiers in peacetime.  The Second Amendment prohibits the government from banning arms needed for national guards or militia.  However, "the right of the people to keep and bear arms" has not been interpreted to mean any type of firearm.  For example, federal laws restrict private ownership of sawed of shotguns and machine guns.  The Second Amendment does not apply to state and local governments, which may pass more restrictive laws on gun ownership (The Close Up Foundation 155).
lnl981,JimBrady,W'hiteHousePresssecretarywasshotduringtheattempted assassination of President Ronald Reagan (Cozic 83).  Americans were horrified when they learned that the assailant, a man with a history of mental problems, had easily purchased a hand gun without any investigation into his background.  The assassination attempt "revived the debate about private gun ownership and helped to mobilize support for handgun regulations." The National Rifle Association, the highly organized and well financed interest group that works against firearms regulations, has utilized very effective lobbying campaigns to block most efforts to regulate handguns (Cole 298-9).  The NRA debates 11 the 2nd Amendment guarantees the right of any American to own anything from handguns to machineguns." But according to the U.S. Supreme Court, " the 2nd Amendment guarantees a state's right to maintain a militia--not an individuals right to own a handgun"(Cozic 84).
Firearms are used to murder nearly 12,000 people annually; another 1,750 persons die by accident; and an estimated 200,000 people are injured.  In addition, more than 16,000 use

firearms to take their own life.  Even with these statistics, the pro-gun advocates continue to
support gun ownership (Cozic 197).

Over the years, both sides of the gun control debate have used statistics to make their arguments.  Statisticians, however, point out that persuasiveness of a statistic lies in its ability to be factually verified.  Here the pro-gun control forces have an advantage over the ant-gun control activists.  They present the corpses and the shattered limbs that result from the misuse of fire arms as the evidence needed to successfully state their position.  The pro-gun activists, however, argue that firearms actually prevent murders, rapes and burglaries.  The problem with this argument is that it lacks statistical verification. (Cozic198)
Regulations will make it more difficult for people with criminal records and those with mental
problems to obtain handguns.  Instead of rushing out to obtain a gun while consumed with anger or depression, they would have time to rethink their intentions (Cole 298-9).
Law-abiding citizens do not need handguns since very few use them to defend themselves.  More commonly, Guns lead to violence within families or cause tragic accidents when children find and play with weapons.  Handguns are favored items for theft or burglaries, and thus law-abiding citizens help provide a ready supply for criminals (Cole 198-9).  Firearms are certainly needed for national defense and law enforcement, but they are not needed by individual citizens to serve as the tools for social violence.  Rational, workable federal legislation is the appropriate means to stop the misuse of firearms.  More aggressive gun control laws are needed to reduce the problem.  However, legislative measures will work only to the extent they are supported by the majority of the people (Cozic 198).

It is better to start reducing the harms of guns rather than to simply surrender to the belief that nothing can be done about gun violence in the United States (Cole 198-9).  At this time it would be unrealistic to ban all firearms from the private sector.  Many pro-gun activists try to attack the pro-control position by arguing that one control will lead to another, and eventually guns will be outlawed all together.  But, firearms are a serious problem in our society and their destructive misuse can not be allowed to continue.  Some increases in regulation are definatly needed (Cosec 198-9).
Federal law requires gun buyers to prevent identification and to sign a form stating that they are not convicted felons or drug addicts and do not have a history of mental illness.  In recent years Congress has debated passing the Brady Bill, which would require a waiting period for handgun purchases and authorize local law enforcement officers to do a background check on a purchaser's mental health and criminal record.  In addition, many state and local governments have added much tougher restrictions to federal law.  Some state and local governments also restrict the sale of military style semiautomatic assault riffles (CUF 162).
Federal Legislation is the only realistic answer.  Even with the 20,000 gun control laws already in existence, the serious problems due to firearm misuse continue (Cozic 199).  A nationwide licensing program would be an effective first step.  Such programs already exist for sellers, manufacturers and importers of firearms, but it does not extend to private citizens who buy and use the guns (Cosec 200).  Not every individual who wants to own a gun should be trusted with it.  With nearly 210,000,000 firearms already present in the United States it is foolish to believe that a licencing program by itself will keep guns out of the hands of people who should not have them.  Another step toward keeping guns from untrustworthy people is to "require that all firearms be registered" (Cozic 200).  In addition to licensing and registration, there should be mandatory investigation of all firearm transferees and a waiting period.  "Controls that go further than present federal legislation in preventing the problems of firearm misuse and that are more rigorously enforced are needed" (Cozic 200).
When our Constitution was drafted, our Founding Fathers foresaw a great nation of peace and tranquility.  Part of the legacy of that vision is a nation free from violence--where the rights of individuals complement the quest for public safety.  The courts agree that nothing in the Constitution prohibits legislators from enacting common-sense restrictions on firearms.  Clearly, our citizens agree.  It is up to us to convince our legislators to translate that fact into action and pass a sensible federal gun policy which will make the nation safer for all of us.



<ICLE-US-SCU-0009.3>

The way a person dresses can influence the way one thinks of and deals with that person.  One may judge them to be a slut, a pimp, a nice person, or a mean person just by the clothes that the person is wearing.  What a person wears can be a good indicator on how that person feel at that particular time.  If she wears a mini-skirt, she probably feel sexy.
Many people have unstable fashion identities. one doesn't know what style he/she wants to wear and this is where fashion designers feed.  Designers make outfits that infer the instabilities people have in order to get people to buy their clothes with the hopes of expressing the style one wants to portray (Davis 24).  The way of expressing the way one dresses was captured in a poem by Robert Herrick (1579-1674) entitled Delight in Disorder:
A sweet disorder in the dress
Kindles in clothes a wantonness:
A lawn about the shoulders thrown
Into a fine distraction:
An erring lace, which here and there
Enthrals the crimson stomacher:
A cuff neglectful, and thereby
Ribbands to flow confusedly:
A winning wave, deserving note,
In the tempestuous petticoat:
A careless shoe-string, in whose tie
I see a wild civility:
Do more bewitch me, than when are
Is too precise in every part.(25)


A person's concept of himself can reflect his strong and weak aspects and his appearance of which he distinguishes himself as an individual (Ryan 82).  The way that a person dresses will influence the way he thinks about himself (84).  Clothing plays a large role in the way a person sees himself and vice versa the way a person sees himself affects the types of clothes he chooses (85).  There tends to be a link between people who are very interested in clothes and the fact that this type of person is highly socially oriented (91).  For example: if I were a person who dresses the way society wants me to dress I would tend to fit in better with the influential people in society which would make me socially oriented.  If I were someone who did not conform to society's style preferences I might be snubbed from the people I might admire and would eventually be shunned and may not want to be noticed.
Clothing has strong affect on adolescents because they turn to peer groups for approval and acceptance in what one wears and does (270).  If the peer group doesn't accept what the friend is wearing, the person will change the outfit, never to be worn again.  The adolescent's self-confidence can be affected by the way he perceives himself and the way others perceive him (291).  The wrong clothes can often make a person feel uncomfortable and self-conscious (291).  Leta Hollingworth states that a "considerable amount of delinquency among adolescents, especially among girls, is directly traceable to the intense craving for the right clothes" (114).  Dress codes were formulated in order to

combat the growing need in young ladies to try and dress alike.  The girls who don't have enough money to dress in fashion are now able to dress the same as all the other girls at school.  Studies have shown that this method has decreased misbehavior and attendance is better because of it (Ryan 295).
The motivation behind why consumers buy what they do is not easy to define.  Mary Shaw Ryan defines it "as the reason an individual chooses to buy one garment instead of another" (147).  Ryan defines consumer satisfaction as "the reason the consumer likes or dislikes a garment ... and considering the experience of a garment as compared with his experience with other garments of that type" (148).  Many consumers also buy garments because it is the latest trend.  When a new trend hits the streets, many consumers don't like it.  But as the consumer sees the style more often, it begins to grow on him and eventually he will be buying it and wearing it just like everyone else (159).
The elderly are also influenced by fashion.  Many women between the ages of 45-65 gain weight and increase clothing sizes (Ryan 306).  The needs for clothing are the same for the elderly as they are for other age groups; approval of others, recognition for looking well, the opportunity to be socially oriented (307). older men and women think that clothes are important and feel that they should make an effort to be "attractive and neat" (316).  Someone who dresses "neatly and attractively" is not as likely to fell self-pity, and is more sociable (316).

Modesty is a term in clothing styles and displays that derives mostly from the Bible in terms of keeping the sexual organs covered (Flugel 17).  The impulse of one being modest, aimed at the more primitive tendency of display, is described in these five statements:
1.	May be directed primarily against social or primarily against sexual forms of display;
2.	may be directed primarily against the tendency to display the naked body or primarily against the tendency to display gorgeous or beautiful clothes;
3.	may have reference, primarily, to tendencies in the self or, primarily, to tendencies in others;
4.	may aim, primarily, at the prevention of desire or satisfaction (social or sexual) or, primarily, at the prevention of disgust, sham, or disapproval;
5.	may relate to various parts of the body.(54) Modesty varies greatly and a full description of its nature needs would have to be devoted to an entire paper.  The five statements give some idea as to what, psychologically, goes through one's mind when deciding whether or not to be modest or daring.
There are so many psychological aspects from fashion that influence the way people dress the way they do.  From adolescence to the elderly, many of the influences are the same.  People dress certain ways to make a point, others dress in a way that has no particular meaning, that person just likes the way he/she looks and feels.  Society is greatly influential on the way people dress.  If the majority doesn't approve, then that style generally is not worn very often except by those who don't care what society has to say about fashion.  Fashion is an outward statement about who a person is.  Funny, strict, friendly,

or sloppy, one can normally gather any of these characteristics from the way a person dresses.  If it weren't for clothes, however, we wouldn't have the excitement of walking down the street, admiring what a person is wearing, or the thrill of getting a new outfit.  Clothes are an important part of our every day lives and they always will be.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0010.3>

A major uproar has arisen in the United States and other countries about saving the environment for future generations to enjoy.  There are many possible ways for this to be achieved, one of which being recycling.  Recycling would include not just the standard aluminum cans and paper bags but also plastic, steel, glass, refrigerators, batteries, and so on. In order for this world to be one that our children and grandchildren can benefit from, recycling needs to become commonplace uniformly.  Before every landfill and dump site is exhausted, the human population needs to educate themselves on the few, simple steps that can be taken to maximize the room that is left in landfills for recyclable materials.
"Most plastic can be recycled and collection for plastics is increasing rapidly' (Recycler's Bill of Rights 1).  This includes but is not limited to; plastic bags, containers, cups, toys and hangars.  All plastic products have recycling codes on them somewhere, on the bottom.  The codes have different meanings because if plastics are mixed, it can ruin the melt (Recycler's 1).  Most types of plastic grocery bags can be mixed together.  Even some bags that contain bread, pasta, and marshmallows can be recycled together.  Many plastic products such as compact discs, video tapes, and computer discs are made from mixed materials which can't be recycled unless first disassembled (Recycler's 1).  Corporations that produce grocery bags are starting to realize the importance of being environmentally friendly.  The Superbag Corporation produces their bags with a significant amount of recycled material.  The finished product is completely recyclable and this material can be used in a number of ways (Superbag 1).  Plastic bags are much better for the environment than paper bags because their production is better for the natural
resources.

The brown paper bags used in some supermarkets are made from virgin paper, without contributions from recycled materials.  Paper making pollutes the water, releases dioxin, contributes to acid rain and costs trees ... Heretical as it may sound, some uses of virgin paper can be more damaging to wildlife than plastic substitutes . . . If they (consumers) support virgin paper bags over plastic bags, they are implicitly supporting higher levels of pollution (Superbag 1).

Although plastic bags are ultimately better than paper, if paper must be used, please make the effort to recycle and contribute to saving the environment.
Steel and glass are very easy to recognize and sort for recycling.  Glass bottles should not be mixed with other types of glass such as windows, light bulbs, mirrors, glass tableware, Pyrex or auto glass (Recycler's 2).  Some marketing experiments with plastic and steel cans that look exactly like aluminum cans have resulted in damaged recycling plants, therefore, the shape of aluminum cans must be reserved for aluminum cans (Recycler's 2).  The recycling process is very important because every year, we throw away enough glass bottles and jars to fill the twin towers of New York's World Trade Center every two weeks (One Earth 1).  Recycling is not only useful for saving room in the landfills but for saving

The energy saved from recycling one glass bottle is enough to fight a one hundred

watt fight bulb for four hours (One Earth 1).
When ready to get a new refrigerator, do not just toss the old one into the dump.  Most refrigerators contain Freon, each molecule of which can destroy more than one hundred thousand molecules of the earths protective ozone layer.  This increases the risk of sunburn, cataracts and skin cancer for the entire population of the earth, which includes and humans and animals (Recycler's 3).  Anyone contacted to remove an old refrigerator should
be aware that the Freon should be first drained and recycled.
Batteries are categorized in rechargeable and non-rechargeable.  Rechargeable batteries contain Cadmium which is a metal that is toxic even in small quantities (Recycler's 3). These are the batteries that are most often used in portable telephones and video tape recorders.  Many states prohibit consumers from putting these batteries m the normal trash.  Although these batteries are generally better for the environment, the metals should not end up in the landfills when the batteries die.  Most batteries will have a phone number or address for more information on recycling (Recycler's 3).  Non-rechargeable batteries such as car batteries are not difficult to dispose of They contain large amounts of lead that can be easily recycled.  Most automotive stores or shops will take these batteries and some will
even pay for them (Recycler's 3).

Batteries that are not recycled and get thrown in the landfills corrode and break apart, releasing mercury or cadmium into the air.  Prolonged exposure to mercury not only makes people extremely sick, but it can also affect behavior.  The average annual use of mercury in batteries exceeds the federal limits on mercury allowed in garbage by four times.
If you are not willing to recycle ordinary batteries, buy only rechargeable.  They are more expensive but worth saving our environment.
Motor oil is a toxic substance that is considered hazardous waste.  "One quart of motor oil can kill fish in thousands and thousands of gallons of water" (Recycler's 3).  Therefore it is extremely important that motor oil is disposed of properly.  The process is simple.  Motor oil should be placed in a clean plastic milk jug and clearly marked "used motor oil." Some states have laws requiring any business that sells oil to take back used oil from consumers (Recycler's 4).
Products that may have been formerly overlooked as being recyclable are laser printer cartridges.  Cartridges can usually be filled four to five times before suffering from clogged or damaged pores (Recycler's 4).  There are many companies that exist to recycle or refill laser and ink jet printer cartridges.  Some will even perform this service through the mail.  Paper that is used in computer printers is among the most valuable type of recycled paper.  Due to the fine grain of recycled paper, the print quality is often better than with virgin paper (Recycler's 4).
Household toxics are potentially dangerous chemicals that we keep in our homes.  These include bug sprays, snail bait, paints, stains, antifreeze, oils, and solvents.  The types of materials described cannot be recycled and should not be placed in regular garbage.  "Water seeps through landfills and the toxics may end up in the water table" (Recycler's 4).

The best solution for household toxics is to buy only the necessities.  Excess materials will only result in dangers to the environment.
So many alternatives exist to just tossing out the trash.  A few more minutes of one person's time can give the @ countless years to keep turning m a healthy manner.  At the rate we are going, within fifteen years, eighty percent of the existing landfills will be fun (One Earth 1).  Where will the trash go then? "Every ton of waste paper recycled saves 3.3 cubic yards of landfill space(One Earth 1).  Recycling needs to be foremost on everyone's mind.  It should not be an afterthought.  If recycling was regarded as high as putting gas in the car, the world would not be in danger of overfilling the landfills.  In the time that it takes to fill a gas tank, a person could have separated their trash into working piles of recyclable materials.  Eventually, trash bins can be placed and marked for different types of trash.  The benefits of saving the earth far outweigh the few minutes of lost time that someone win suffer from taking the time and initiative to recycle.




<ICLE-US-SCU-0011.3>


Gun control is goverment limitation of the purchase and ownership of firearms.  In South Carolina, we are in great need of gun control.  Heinous crimes involving guns are at an all-time high.  From the use of guns, people are dying at an alarming rate, daily.  Therefore, steps for gun control must be taken.  There are some segments of society that are not taking gun control seriously, in light of these obstacles, Gun Control needs to implemented because it would mainly reduce crime, save lives and lessen the fears of innocent ones.
It is prevalent that guns are being misused daily.  This leads to all types of situations such as youths being able to get access to guns and commit murders, people killing others over nonsense, and several other related issues.
The following supports the fact that guns are being
misused:	"Toby R. Sincino, the 15-year-old who shot two teachers	at Blackville-Hilda High School before killing himself,	was buried Tuesday--the same day one of his victims was released from the hospital (The Times and Democrat,pg.6A)." This incident that occurred at the Blackville-Hilda High School where a student shot two teachers and himself is a good example of how young kids can get a gun, the same as Toby did, and create trouble for themselves and others.  This incident should also serve as a lesson to schools of all levels to keep gun control at a maximum to reduce in-school killings of techers, students, and other faculty memebers.
Not only do incidents like this happen in the school, but they are bound to happen in public places, also.  At the Farmers and Merchants Bank in Branchville, South Carolina, an armed robber got away with an unspecified amount of cash.
"As three bank tellers were conducting business at Branchville's only bank, an armed man entered the bank carrying a briefcase and demanded that they fill it with it money (The Times and Democrat,pg.1A)."
Robbery is the key factor in this situation, which is another result of gun control being at a minimum in South Carolina.  In public places like banks, restaurants, gas stations, etc., anybody can just walk in with a gun and

commit a robbery.  However, if there were more stringent gun control laws in effect, these perpetrators would think twice before committing such crimes.  One citizen said she wants more police protection, especially in the daytime (Times and Democrat,page 1A).  Another citizen said small-town banks 'need more security (Times and Democrat,page 1A)." The gun control in Branchville will soon be out of control if citizens' concerns are not taken into consideration.
In my hometown, Orangeburg, South Carolina, guns are being used for the wrong reasons, causing loved ones to lose their lives for no reason.
The killing took place two years ago, during the early part of 1993, when a 54-year-old Calhoun-Orangeburg
Vocational Educational Center
administrator and business owner, Franklin D. Glover, was found dead behind the counter of his convenience store.  Mr. Glover was a kind-hearted man, who everyone knew and respected.  However, two young males just came into his store, and shot and killed him.  One was the lookout man, while the other one did the shooting.(Personal Recollection)

The Glover killing brought a lot of grief to his wife and kids and the town of Orangeburg.  The fact that this nice man's life was taken for nothing, really makes you wonder whether people get guns to protect themselves or to just go out and commit insane acts such as this one.  This is a good example to think about when the issue hits close to home.
Another incident that took place in my hometown involving the misue of guns was the killing of my Uncle Edward.  Here is the story as told by my mother, when giving her account on the misuse of guns:
My brother, Edward C. Spigner, came upon his death by the use of a handgun.
Prior to his	death, he and an acquaintance	exchanged harsh words, and
as he turned to leave, the acquaintace pulled out a handgun and started shooting and at least three of the shots hit my brother.  He was taken to the hospital, but died approximately an hour later.(Interview With Mom)

This crime was an act of nonsense.  When my uncle walked away after words were exchanged, the acquaintance could have done the same to solve the confusion between the two of them.  Instead of taking the easy and safe way out, the acquaintance brought sorrow to my family.  This is a good example of why we need increased gun control.  If people with guns would use their heads instead of the trigger, these situations would not occur.
With all of the gun-related crimes, "gun control has continued to be widely debated and often opposed, notably by the National Rifle Association (Multimedia Resoureces-CDRom)." This opposing organization doesn't realize that gun-related crimes are steadily rising.  Statistics recently state that out of all the "hate crimes committed in the United States, robbery and murder are amongst the highest with robbery being approximately 2.5% of the 4,755 crimes reported and murder being approximately 16.3% of the 4,755 crimes reported (Multimedia Resources-CD-Rom)."
In closing, if I could make the laws for gun control, I would make it where no one but the policemen and people in the military would be allowed to carry guns.  Besides, they are people who know when and where to use a gun.  In the United States the right of the citizens to keep and bear arms is guaranteed by the Constitution, but has been variously interpreted, especially for the wrong reasons.  'Because of the various interpretations, major controversy over gun control and the growing number of gun-related crimes, a congressional passage of the Brady Bill was propelled in 1993.  This bill requires a five-day waiting period and background check before a handgun purchase (Multimedia Resources-CD-Rom).
The above situations are all the reasons why obtaining guns should be made tougher.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0012.3>

The wild card was introduced to baseball for the first time this year.  The introduction was made necessary by the realignment of the Eastern and Western divisions of the National and American Leagues into the Eastern, Central, and Western divisions.  The realignment produces three Division winners, thus creating the need for a fourth team from each league in order to even up the playoff matches.  The wild card, this fourth team, is decided by taking the team from each league with the best record the three Division winners.  The wild card is good for baseball because it adds more teams to the playoffs, creates another race similar to a pennant race, and provides more competition.
In the past, there were only four teams involved in the playoffs which consisted of only two rounds.  Round one, in the old playoff system was known as the League Championship Series where the winner of the National League East played the winner of the National League West and the winner of the American League East played the winner of the American League West.  The World Series was the second round and featured the winner of the National Leagued Championship Series versus the winner of the American League Championship Series.  The new playoff system includes eight teams and three rounds.
In the new system, the first round is called the Division Series and includes eight teams.  Major League Baseball has set up the following rules to determine who plays who in the Division

Series:

At the end of the regular season, the three Division champions and the team with the best second-place record in each League (the wild card team) will advance to the best-of-five Division Series.  The wild card team will then play the division winner with the highest winning percentage, unless that division winner is from the same division or does not have home field advantage in the Division Series. (Major League Baseball)

Now, the question is, who has home field advantage?

The answer is not that simple.  Traditionally, in most playoff systems, the team with the better record receives home field advantage.  Baseball, unfortunately, feels the need to be different and has been since the inception of the designated hitter.  Home field advantage, in the previous playoff system, simply alternated between the two divisions in the League Championship Series and between the two leagues in the World Series.  "In the newly created 'Division Series' playoffs, home field advantage will be awarded to two division winners on a rotational basis" (The Wildcard... ). The two winners of the division series in each league then meet in second round action.
The second round of the playoffs is the League Championship Series.  The winner of the National League Championship Series and the American League Championship Series then go on to meet in the third and final round, otherwise known as the World Series.  The only question left is, how is all of this good for baseball?
There are now four more teams in the playoffs thanks to the wild card.  Baseball benefits from having more teams in the playoffs because it showcases more of its premier players.  The

Cincinnati Reds, Colorado Rockies, Boston Red Sox, and New York Yankees all would not have been in the playoffs this year, if baseball did not realign the divisions and add the wild card.  The absence of these four teams would have meant the absence of some of baseball's brightest stars.  The Most Valuable Player from each league, Barry Larkin from the National League Cincinnati Reds and Mo Vaughn of the American League Boston Red Sox, would not have been involved in post season play.  Ron Gant, Dante Bichette, Andres Galaragga, Larry Walker, Don Mattingly, David Cone, Ruben Sierra, Wade Boggs, Tim Wakefield, Jose Canseco, and Roger Clemens are other big name stars that would have been denied from the playoffs in the old system.  The inclusion of all of these additional stars in the playoffs is good for baseball because people are fascinated by star athletes as made evident by the use of star athletes in many popular advertising campaigns.  More teams in the playoffs lets people watch more of their favorite players in postseason action, as well as involving more cities in the playoff excitement.
The wild card gets more cities involved in the playoff race because it allows an additional team from any division in each league to participate in the playoffs.  The race to get the wild card spot provides another race which is similar to a pennant race.  More fans stay interested in baseball until the end of the season because they want to see who will receive the wild card spot.  The race between the Seattle Mariners and California Angels was the only one of the six division races to come down to

the last day of the season this year.  The only two wild car spots, on the other hand, were both decided on the last day of the season.  On the last day of the season, the wild card races and playoff possibilities were as follows:
<*>

* - If the Yankees win Sunday, they will
clinch the wild card berth.
* - If Seattle loses, while California and the Yankees win, the Mariners would host the Angels in a one-game playoff to determine the winner of the A.L. West, and the Yanks would get the wild card berth.
* - If Seattle and the Yankees lose and California wins, there would be a three-way tie for the final two playoff berths.  In that case, New York would get the wild card spot, while California would play in Seattle in a one-game playoff to decide the A.L. West.
* - If Seattle and California both win and the Yankees lose, the Mariners win the A.L. West and the Angels will travel to New York Monday afternoon to decide the wild card spot. (Final 1995 Wild Card Standings)
The wild card clearly provided extra excitement to the playoff picture because of the many different playoff possibilities it still presented on the last day of the season.  The wild card and the realignment spread the excitement out over five cities whereas the old alignment would have only brought excitement to Seattle and California.  More cities being involved in the playoff picture led to more people being interested in baseball.  Baseball really needed more fans who were interested in the game because of the numerous fans who stopped following baseball because of the strike of the previous season.
The wild card provides more competition for the league championship for many reasons.  The most obvious reason is that the wild card makes it necessary for a team to win two games in order to be the league champion instead of just one.  The wild card teams were also very competitive this year.  The wild card Colorado Rockies won one out of four games against the Atlanta Braves, while the Central Division Champion Cincinnati Reds lost all four games they played against the Braves.  The Rockies also managed to score nineteen runs in those four games, while the Reds only got a total of five runs in their series with the Braves.  In the American League, the wild card New York Yankees took the Western Division Champion Seattle Mariners to a final fifth game, which the Yankees lost in extra innings.  The wild card teams were clearly very competitive in the playoffs which was good for baseball because it makes the World Series tougher to win.
The wild card has many positive effects on baseball.  Without the wild card, fans would have been unable to view some of the best and most popular players in the game in playoff action.  Without the wild card, the end of the season would have been very boring with two out of the four division winners basically decided with two months of the season left and three out of the four playoff spots filled by the last day of the season.  Without the wild card, the Mariners would not have beaten the Yankees in a dramatic final eleven inning game which reminded baseball fans why they loved the game.  Without the wild card, the World Series would not have been as hard to win because there would have been no Division Series to have to survive in order to make it to the League Championship Series.  Perhaps most importantly, without the wild card, baseball would have remained behind football and basketball which have had more than two rounds of playoffs for years.  When all is said and done, the wild card could be the factor that brings baseball back to the forefront after losing popularity to football and baseball.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0013.3>
When a reporter interviews someone for a story that will be published, whether it be in a newspaper, on a TV broadcast, or on the radio, the interviewee has to trust the reporter to be fair and honest.  The interviewee must believe that the reporter will report the facts accurately, or the interviewee will not tell the whole story.  If the interviewee does not want the public to know where the reporter got the story, the reporter must decide if he/she will keep the source secret.  If the reporter decides to keep the source secret, he/she must do so, no matter who asks for the information.
Keeping the sources secret, especially in a courtroom setting has always been a problem for many journalists.  In some states, for example, if a reporter does not reveal his/her sources he/she can be put in jail for contempt of court.
The trust bond between a reporter and his/her source can be compared to that of a doctor-patient relationship, and it should not be broken.  If the source was not made public because he/she requested anonymity, the reporter should not be questioned.  To protect journalists from having to deal with questions about their sources, 28 states have shield laws, which protect journalists, whether it be partially or fully, from having to reveal their sources (Henry 56).
The first shield law was created in Maryland in 1896 (Gordon
6).	The law came into effect after a case concerning a Baltimore

	Sun reporter, James Morris, took place.  Morris was a police reporter and he wrote a story in which he predicted the action the grand jury of the city would take.  He was called before the jury and refused to reveal his source, saying that, "his sense of humor would not permit him to do so" (Gordon 9).  He was put in jail for five days because of his refusal and after a few months of discussion about the law, it was passed.
When the Maryland law was passed in 1896, it read as follows:
An Act to protect reporters and other newspaper men from being compelled to disclose the source of any news or information procured for publication in any legal or legislative proceedings in the State of Maryland.  Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Maryland, that no person engaged in, connected with or employed on a newspaper or journal shall be compelled to disclose in any legal proceeding or trial or before any committee of the legislature or elsewhere the source of any news or information procured or obtained by him for and published in the newspaper on and in which he is engaged, connected with or employed.  Section 2. And it be enacted that this Act shall take effect from the date of its passage (Gordon 7).

Of the 28 states that have shield laws, South Carolina is one of them.  In January 1974, Representative George Dean Johnson introduced a shield law bill in the South Carolina House of Representatives (Montgomery 80).  The actual bill, qualified privilege against disclosure for news media, (section 19-11-100) was not passed until 1993 and was effective after June 14, 1993
(Zeigler).

The shield law does not, however provide total protection for journalists from having to reveal their sources.  Depending on the reason the judge has for asking the reporter to reveal his/her sources, the shield law can or cannot be beneficial to the reporter.
In a very recent example,, Twila Decker, a reporter at The State (Columbia, SC) Newspaper was called into the courtroom in July 1995, after an article she wrote about Susan Smith, the woman who was charged with drowning her two sons, was published in the paper.  Portions of Smith's psychiatric evaluation appeared in the article.  The court had previously issued an order that was designed to keep the information of that evaluation confidential and the only parties who were supposed to know what was in the evaluation were the solicitor, the South Carolina Department of Mental Health who conducted the evaluation, and the defense.  All three parties had been instructed not to reveal the information to anyone who did not need to know about it.  The court asked Decker where she got the information from, and she refused to give her source, claiming that the South Carolina Shield Law protected her from having to tell where she got the information.  The court decided that the South Carolina Shield Law could not come into play because the law did not apply when the trial court wanted an answer, only when the plaintiff or defendant wanted an answer.  The court went on to say that even if the Shield Law had been effective, it "was outweighed by the trial court's fundamental need to be able to enforce its own orders" (Zeigler).
Since the shield law is not a Federal law, the way other states handle cases pertaining to a reporter refusing to reveal sources is varied greatly.  In Hamilton County, Ohio, for example, a  journalists sources were stripped bare without the reporter even being notified of the search' (Henry 56).  A major employer in the area, Procter & Gamble was angered after a leak about ,internal policy debates' turned into a possible story in the Wall Street Journal.  The reporter, Alecia Swasy,, was researching material to possibly write the story, but before she actually had a chance to print the story, a prosecutor had a search conducted through the phone company to find out who the leak was (Henry 56).
The search that was made covered 35 million telephone calls made between March 1 and June 15 from 655,000 southwestern Ohio lines to find...who had called the home or office of Wall Street Journal Pittsburgh bureau reporter Alecia Swasy (Henry 56).

One of the most famous cases of journalists not revealing their sources came from Watergate.  Two journalists, Woodward and Bernstein were given information that no one else knew about that had to do with Watergate.  The informant has since been nicknamed deep Throat" and to this day, no one knows who it is.
Another case that has to do with journalists not revealing their sources is the case about Charles Stuart, a Boston man who said a black robber shot his pregnant wife.  Later, Stuart confessed to killing his wife and committed suicide soon after.  Two reporters, Patricia Mangan of the Boston Herald and David Ropeik of Boston"s WCVB-TV reported the idea that Stuarts brother was also involved in the murder/suicide.  The district attorney tried to sue both reporters, claiming that the prosecution had no other ways of finding out where the source came from.  The prosecution lost the suit and the reporters did not have to reveal their sources (Henry 56).
The importance of the trust bond between the reporter and the source must be realized.  All of the interviews a reporter gets are based on trust.  If a journalist is forced to get up in court and tell everything, other sources for other stories will never trust that reporter.  Letting the interviewee know that the reporter will report the 'truth is very important.  The integrity of a reporter is destroyed when he/she has to break a promise he/she made to a source.  Revealing a source brings on feelings of guilt and can ruin a journalist's career.
A judge asking a journalist to reveal a source to a story is a violation of the reporters right to do his/her job to the best of his/her ability.  A journalist's job is to get the story no matter what.  The media is a service to the people and the people deserve to know the whole story whenever it is possible to get it.  If the reporter is afraid to write a story because of the possibility of having to reveal his/her sources in the future, how many stories will the American people miss?
The concept of the overruling of a shield law is a bad one.  The reporter should not have to defend every story he/she writes.  If the justice system were better in the United States maybe the police could find the answers themselves, instead of having to ask reporters for all the answers.  The justice system often resorts to desperate measures in order to get the reporter to reveal his/her sources.
In California, where judges are barred from holding reporters in contempt for not divulging sources, Superior Court Judge

Bernard Kamins twisted the law 180 degrees so he could use it in his favor.  Los Angeles times reporter Richard Serrano had a $1,500. a-day fine imposed on him because he would not tell the court how he received a report discussing the Rodney King beatings.  The fine was imposed not because he was in contempt of court, but for punishment, according to Judge Kamins for refusal to expose who violated Kamins' gag order."' (Henry 56).
Many journalists have come under the heavy hand of judges and have gone to jail for not revealing their sources.  Many have also told what they know.  The whole idea is a matter of morals.  What is right in one person's eyes may not be right in another's.  In 1989, U.S. faced almost 4,500 subpoenas.  Since then the numbers have definitely increased.
The real danger in the rush to subpoena reporters is not that news organizations will face expense or inconvenience but that stories that used to be hard to get will become ... well nigh impossible (Henry 56).

Protect the Shield Laws.  People have a right to know the whole truth.  Don't make people scared to talk.  If people feel like a reporter can be trusted, the stories will be much more interesting.  Journalists do what they do for the people.  Don't keep them from doing their job.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0001.4>


The trend of our society today is striving so hard to equalize men and women that the efforts perhaps have been taken a little too far when it comes to women in combat.  I think women can serve just as important a role in the military as men can without serving in actual combat duty.  It seems we are being subconsciously and consciously led to believe that a woman can do anything a man can do without considering the consequences of that concept.
The intentions seem honorable on the surface, however when reality comes into play, reality is often altered to accommodate the need to create equality.  For example, when a female enters the military, her intellectual capabilities to enter military service may be the same as a males, however once in the military and given assignments of equal capacities as a male, the standards for a particular routine are sometimes lowered to accommodate the physical weakness of the weaker sex. and goes into the military, her intellectual capability to enter may be the same, however once in the military and given assignments of equal capacity as a male, the standards for a particular routine are sometimes lowered to accommodate the physical weakness of the weaker sex.  'This could result in a distortion and/or deterioration of proper standards for warfare routines.  In an effort to create this equal environment among the sexes in the military, the standards in which this equality is measured should be in terms of mentality and intellectual capabilities but it somehow filters over into the physical and emotional sense as well.  When trying to equalize these aspects of military life, it could have a negative effect on the defense of the country.

There are positions in the military in which women can be just as effective as men and when it comes to intellectual assignments where physical and emotional strength are not factors, I believe women can be equal in most aspects.  Why is it so important to take the physical body and emotional makeup of a woman and say it is either wrong for her to be different or it is an obstacle that can be overcome? Why not accept the differences as an intentional purposeful created differences instead of seeing it as a wrong that needs to be fixed? I believe when a female is considered equal to a male in the physical and emotional sense, it distorts reality.  The distortion takes place when people recognize these differences and try deny their existence.  A woman's body is not the same as a man's body and cannot function in every capacity as a man's does and when one assumes it can, many problems could arise.  The physical body of a female is so different from the male body, the physical demands of combat would not be feasible for a women without changing the way these demands are handled.
	The emotional makeup of a women is quite different from a man's.  I do not think that necessarily means a woman is totally limited in terms of assignments where emotions could be a serious impediment, it just means there are some limitations that society should recognize when trying so hard to create the equality among the sexes.  For instance, why train that out of a woman, why not accept it and consider ways to use these characteristics in a positive way? Our society and the feminists that support this equality is so intent on creating this type of environment, that perhaps we have become obsessed with just that and ultimately losing a part of what should be a unique creation.  We were created different and we are different.  Maybe we are different for a reason and those differences should not necessarily be viewed as negative.  Maybe we were made different to stay different and
perhaps in trying to create this equality we may lose something very unique and special that can never be regained.  What consequences might there be for us that we cannot undo?
	If we could just stay where we are now with this equalization process I think we are in a very good position and we have come very far.  I feel equal to a man in many respects especially when it comes to intellectual capabilities and most job opportunities.  This seems quite appropriate but I think when it comes to combat duty, that is going too far and possibly to the point of destroying the uniqueness that exists between a woman's physical and emotional makeup and man's physical and emotional makeup.  I love having feminine characteristics that differentiate me from a male.  I have a difficult time trying to understand a woman that wants to be treated like a man in this physical and emotional sense.  I think if we all become one in this sense, we will lose a part of our being that has for centuries molded us and contributed to our creativity and effectiveness within the human race.


<ICLE-US-SCU-0002.4>


	I don't know how to express how important it is that everyone listen and follow the rules while riding the go-carts at an amusement park, but hopefully if you are reading this, the point will come across to you.  I know the rules are very important to follow because I am living proof.  I have been working at an amusement park called Frankie's Fun Park for about a year and a half and I have seen a good bit of people get hurt, because they didn't follow the rules.  There are many reasons why you should follow the rules, so you don't get hurt or hurt anybody else and you don't damage the cars.

	Before every race, the workers and I check to see that everybody has their seatbelt on.  The seatbelts are designed to keep you from going forward and to keep you in your seat, so that you are not thrown out of your car if you are hit hard by somebody else.  The seatbelts shouldn't be taking off during the race at anytime.  The seatbelts are only for your safety.  I know you have heard the saying, "buckle up."
	When we start the annoucements before the race, the first thing we say is that the gas is on the right and the brake is on your left.  I have seen it a hundred times, when people coming in the pit, slam into the back of other people, because they didn't use their brakes.  You would be very surprised at the amount of people, who don't use their brakes because they say they don't know where they are, so it is important that you listen.
	One major rule is no bumping, swerving, riding the rails, and reckless driving.  When you don't follow this rule, you could hurt yourself and others riding on the track.  I know that most people ride in a group with their friends and they bump each other for fun, but it can turn out not to be fun.  You have got to remember that we have some small children that ride with their parents on the track.  When you bump other cars, a car that is hit might break down in the middle of the track and can easily get hit by another car.  Also, bumping can damage the cars and when the cars break down do not blame us, because the cars are abused by the riders, who do not follow the rules.  I have seen people bumping before on the track and not paying attention on their driving and they end up hitting an innocent, little kid and hurting them seriously.  Bumping can cause very big wrecks between several cars and it can cause people to get in fights by provoking other people.  The only reason the bumpers are on the cars in the first place are just in case you accidentally get hit, the bumpers will absorb the shock.  The bumpers are not their for people to intentionally hit other people.
	When ever there is a wreck, you should watch for the workers to direct you around the accident.  You need to be careful and watch out for the other cars and the workers.  Believe me, not one worker wants to get hit by a car.  I should know, because I have been hit by a go-cart going twenty-five miles per hour and it doesn't feel good.  I was even lucky that when I got hit, I wasn't seriously hurt, I just bruised my arm real bad.  So, it is especially important that you watch out for the workers and listen to them when they tell you what to do.
	Another rule is at the end of the race, come in the pit slowly and do not hit the person in front of you.  The workers are at great risk when bringing the cars in, because there are about thirty-eight cars riding at one time and the workers have to direct all the cars in one lane and slow them all down as to keep people from being hit from behind hurting people's back or neck.  After coming in the pit, remain seated until dismissed.  If you don't stay seated in the car and you start getting out, you could be hit by a car coming in.
	We hate throwing people off the track, but if you break the rules we have to take you off, so that you do not hurt anybody else riding.  I hope everyone understands the importance of having all these rules.  Having all these rules are for the safety of everyone.  The rules also make others happy and make jobs easier on the workers, who usually work seven hours a day dodging cars to keep from being hit.  All amusement parks have to have rules, you got to remember that an amusement park is a place where families and friends can go and have fun.  Following all these rules can lead to a safe, fun, and enjoyable ride.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0003.4>


	It is the middle of July and the temperature outside is 98 degrees.  If you are like many people, the thought of going down to your local swimming pool floods your head. your only problem now is that you do not know how to swim.  This is not uncommon, most of your friends do not know how to swim.  You do not even think twice about it and you go put on your swim trunks and rush out the door, down the street, and to the pool.  You figure that you will be fine in the water and that if something did happen to you one of your older friends would be able to help you.  You jump in the water and a cool, refreshing feeling rushes over you.  It feels so much better than the hot, sticky summer air.  Then you realize something; you are touching the bottom of the pool but your head is still underwater.  You stand on your tip-toes trying to get the least little bit of air into your lungs.  It does not work.  Now you are panicing and there is nothing that you can do.  You are hoping, even praying that one of your friends will save you and ... everything goes black.
	This is a common story in the summer time.  You get home from work, turn on the News and you hear of another drownding at a local pool.  These are senseless deaths and they could easily be avoided through education.
	There is a way that you could provide this type of education to every young person growing up today.  In middle school there are certain classes that you must take in order to advance to high school.  High schools also have requirements for graduation. one class that is common from school to school and state to state is a class in Physical Education.  I think that swimming should be added to the cericulum of P.E. It would give evryone the chance to learn how to swim, how to recognize when somebody is in trouble and how to handle that situation.The topic of mandatory swim requirements is rarely heard in the education community.  Swimming is a skill that is easy to learn and could even save your life.  Alarmingly however, many people have no idea how to swim or how to help someone who is struggling in the water.
	In as little as four weeks a swim instuctor can teach someone who has no concept of swimming how to swim . Four weeks may seem like a long time, but it is skill that could save their lives in the future.  How often have you heard of dodgeball saving someone's life? Education is the key and it could be easily provided.  Even if a student did not learn to swim in the program, then the student wuold at least have been exposed to swimming and would have received an education on water safety and would at least know how to assist someone who was in danger of drownding.

	Many school systems have pools that are under-used.  The schools should take advantage of their existing facilities and provide the students with a skill that will stick with them for the rest of their lives.  If a school system does not have swimming pools within the system, use local pools for the lessons.  Many pools cut their season short because there is not enough use to justify keeping them open.  The school system could contract out to local pools to use their facilities for the classes the pools could extend the season and increase their profits.  Finding instuctors for this new section of P.E. would not be a problem.  There are many organizations which certify instructors and in order to keep their certifications current, they must thaech swim lessons. these organizations could funnel their instructors into the educational system to teach these young children how to swim.  Another alternative would be to have the staff of the pool where the lessons were being held to teach the classes.  It would provide employent to lifeguards and swim instructors who normally would be out of a job when the season is over.
	I believe that these senseless deaths could be stopped and that the solution to the problem is a simlpe one that could be remidied quickly and effectively.




<ICLE-US-SCU-0004.4>

	Drinking has been a custom in the U.S. for many decades.  Every since the wild west, the civil war, and the drafting of the Declaration of Independance.  People under the age of twenty one are considered to be minors, when it comes to drinking alcoholic beverages in the United States.  At eighteen you are considered a man, therefore you should be able to decide your own fate and make your own decisions.  Eighteen should be the legal age to consume alcohol in the United States. 
	You can be condemned to go to war in the United States at the age of eighteen, but you can not drink a beer like all of the other adults over the age of twenty one.  Kids are dieing for our country in wars, but the government will still not allow them to drink.  How can you think you are a man and fight in combat, when the government says that you are two young to do what all of the other adults.  I think if you can hold a gun and fight for your country, you should be able to feel the affects of drinking alcohol.
	Kids are getting in too much trouble trying to hide their drinking from their parents.  Most kids	eighteen to twenty are out of high school, and their parents do not care what they do.  A high school diploma should state that you are old enough to make mature decisions.  You can say that some kids that are eighteen and over do not have a diploma.  You can make a rule that if you do not have a diploma and you are under twenty one, then you are not able to drink.  Maybe a higher percentage of teenagers will graduate, thinking that if they had a diploma they would be able to do anything an adult can do.
	There would be less crime in the United States among teenagers, if eighteen year old was allowed to drink.  Most crime among teenagers is drinking and driving.  They are left with this decision to drink and drive because they try to hide it from their parents.  They cannot drink in their own household, so they have to do it somewhere their parents would not find out.  Eighteen year olds would not be put in jail for containing alcohol in the car either, which is another high percentage crime among teenagers.
	Drinking should be prohibited to to kids eighteen or older.  If the government passes a law allowing them to drink, it would just make the U.S. a better environment to live in.  If anything the military should give convince the gonvernment to pass a law allowing teenagers to drink.  If they pass that law, I would feel more like an adult, and accept more responsibility because I am one.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0005.4>

	"Business is Business," Arthur B. Modell,' owner of the Cleveland Browns, said after he announced to the country that the cities most beloved team would move to Baltimore.  Some people believe this move is justified, especially since Baltimore lost their Colts in the late march of 1983 to Indianapolis.  The city of Cleveland will be consciously devastated when the move is finalized in January of 1996.  One may assume that the NFL and it's tax subsidized teams no longer owe any loyalty to the fans.
	The Houston Oilers will leave Houston for Nashville at the end of the 1995 season to become the Tennessee Cherokees.  The Los Angeles Raiders left Los Angeles to go back to Oakland while at the same time the Los Angeles Rains left Anaheim to go to a more spacious St.Louis in a period of all but two months.  Why is this happening? And now the 54 year old Cleveland Browns plan to leave Cleveland in order to become the Baltimore Browns.  Is this right? Is business just business or do fans, tradition. and loyalty count?
	The City of Cleveland has been known as a dump city for over two decades! Yet, they never really cared what anyone else thought.  They started to beautify the city in the late 1980's, and now the beautification process really shows.  They spent 440 million dollars on the Gateway Project to build new facilities in downtown Cleveland for their baseball team (The Cleveland Indians), and their basketball team (The Cleveland Cavaliers).  Project Gateway opened two years ago.  They spent almost 80 million on Cleveland's brand new Rock'n Roll Hall of Fame.  The Rock'n Roll Hall of Fame opened this year, and now they are building a novel Science Museum which will be located in downtown Cleveland.  Bob Costas of NBC's sports called it," The Renaissance of Cleveland."
	All of this would be shattered in just one day when Art Modell announced that he was taking his Cleveland Browns elsewhere.  The fans of Cleveland didn't deserve this abdication.  They were sold out for dollars and cents inwhich they were not even given time to make a counter offer.  Some try to blame the city of Cleveland for their loss by saying they that when people talk Cleveland, they only talk of the Cleveland Browns, so since they felt the need to give the other teams new stadiums and not the Browns, it is their own fault for their departure.  Others say that the city of Cleveland needs to suck it up and take it like a man.
	The facts about what really happened are being snowballed because most of it just happened to fast.  Arthur B. Modell sold out the city of Cleveland because he is greedy, pure and simple.  Baltimore offered him a new 200 million dollar stadium, a 50 million dollar relocation fee, promised sell outs for the next 10years, a rent free 30 year lease on the stadium, and all advertisement income would go directly to him which in itself comes to 60 million dollars a year.  That was what it took for him to sign away the heart and soul of the city of Cleveland.
	He never even gave Cleveland a chance to come up with a package of it's own.  This business deal was wrong no matter how you sliced it.  The city of Cleveland asked Arthur B. Modell if he would want a new stadium in order for him to become a part of the Gateway project.  He said no because he wanted to keep the tradition of playing in the Cleveland Municipal Stadium which the Browns have played in for over 54 years.  He also said that he wanted the Cleveland stadium renovated, so the city passed a county wide sin tax to raise 175 million dollars needed for stadium renovations which would begin this summer.  It was passed by over a 70% margin.  Then out of nowhere he signed the team away to Baltimore and proudly gave Cleveland the one finger salute.  Arthur B. Modell is a liar.  He said, "I will never take the team out of Cleveland." now he said, "Business is Business." Every Cleveland game this season has sold over 70 ,000 tickets unlike all the other franchise moves inwhich attendance was a mere 20,000 at best.  Cleveland fans gained nation wide prominence because of their stir crazy fans who scream rapid in Municipal Stadium which they call the dawg pound.  The NFL will make a final vote in January to determine the fate of the city.  The city of Cleveland asked Art Modell to leave the names and colors with the city, but he profoundly refused.  This was a case of greed, and the only people who hurt are the fans of Cleveland.


<ICLE-US-SCU-0006.4>

Upon entering college I didn't know I would still have a curfew.  Nor did I know I would he treated as if I were age thirteen.  I thought if I had a male guest, friend, brother, or cousin, they could spend the night.  I guess if I were a resident of one of the "special" dorms A could, co-ed. if some dorms can have overnight visitation all of them should.
Just because a dorm is co-ed doesn't mean overnight visitation is allowed.  They still have a 2 a.m. curfew.  A friend of mine that's a Bates House resident just has another resident of the opposite sex to sigu.her mate guest in and he spends the night with her.  She's not the only resident doing it.  Students in universities and colleges should not have to sneak around just to spend quality time with someone.  We're not at home we don't have certain luxuries anymore like a car.
. Since we are In college now, we are old enough to handle the actions we take Into our own hands, maturely.  If a person chooses to do whatever 'in their room, however long they want to should be between that person and their roommate.  One evening I started my homework late.  A male classmate came to help me but we didn't finish the homework.  He had to leave my room at two.  We went to the lobby but one girl was talking so loud I couldn't hear myself think.  Another was playing the piano at two in the morning.  Why? I felt this was rude.  Besides other residents were sleeping.
Homecoming weekend my cousin, surprisingly, came to visit some friends and me.  He* spent most of the day with his friends.  I caught up with him later that night.  He walked me to my dorm and spent a little time with me, but 2 a.m. struck and he bad to go.  We talked some more in the lobby but we had to keep our voices down, out of respect.  I wanted him to spend the night because he's in the military and I'm not going to see him for three years.  He's stationed in Germany.  This is another reason we need overnight visitation.  Relatives should be able to chill out with us in our rooms.  They should know how we are living here at U.S.C. Also opposite sex relatives may not have anywhere to stay or want to stay anywhere else.  Finally, leaving a dormitory at 2 a.m. Is dangerous.  Not saying the curfew should be lowered, but we shouldn't have one.  Walking from one side of campus to the other, at night, is not safe if you're alone.  People can get mugged, raped, kidnapped, or beat up.  This is not the safest place to be, but we should do our best to make it safer.  Some people get intoxicated in other people's rooms with a curfew and have to go back to their rooms.  We all know that when intoxicated the response level is lowered.  They're actions change, they can be easily Influenced, and may not know what's going on.  At times it gets that bad.
I'm not writing this to advocate alcohol, sex, or anything else.  I just feel we should not have a curfew period.  We are adult enough now to take our actions into our hands.  Besides, isn't that what college is about, learning to be an adult and maturing? I know things don't always go our way, but this should be one thing that does.  The single sex dormitories should not have a curfew just because most of us are freshmen.  We deserve a bit of freedom also.  "Freshman" does not mean mistreat.  If overnight visitation can not he decided on we could at least have overnight visitation on the weekends.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0007.4>

In an age when government funding cuts loom on the horizon like an ominous storm cloud, it leaves many to think which area of government spending will be cut next.  Obviously, some areas, such as defense cuts, seem appropriate since the United States no longer is faced with the imminent threat of attack from another super-power.  Yet, there are some areas, such as government support for the arts, which should keep, if not receive more, support from government agencies.
Why should the arts, both the visual and performing arts, be supported by the government? Perhaps the most general reason rests in the views of anthropology: since the beginning of human civilization, man has seen a need for interpreting and depicting his world.  In this depiction, he chose to communicate in a way that would last through the ages.  Thanks to the ingenuity and interpretation of primitive cultures, we still have today cave and wall drawings that communicate to us the very essence of early human thought.  This is a classic model of how we of today can leave an impression for future generations.  These generations will be able to look in retrospect and see what we thought was important.
Similarly, art also helps us to communicate with each other and show others our values.  Using two leaders of France, it's interesting to note how Louis XIV- XVI and Napoleon desired to use the decorative arts to impress the globe with the glory of France.  Certainly, these leaders hoped to communicate the opulence and prestige of their reigns.
However, art also helps us communicate with each other in day-to-day living.  Children's drawings are a good example of this.  In these, verbal skills are minimized and focused mainly on the communication of the basic idea.  These are very basic, but it is interpretable by nearly everyone in a precise, pictorial form.
Following from the idea of sharing, the performing and visual arts link communities together.  In a simplistic manner, it is often like team sports.  People who, for instance, are in a ballet troupe together bond as they work together to produce something of quality and pride.  Camaraderie, and oftentiines friendship, emerges among fellow performers.  For patrons of the arts, as they appreciate the arts with others, they, too, may develop friendships and bonds developed over a common interest.  Visual artists may share techniques and viewpoints which helps to further develop the individual's ideas and modes of thinking about expression.  Most often, the greatest influence on an artist stems from the work of other artists and his or her environment.
The financial benefit due to government support of the arts is also not to be ignored.  Certainly, large museums can attract a large number of tourists, which directly can influence the amount of money that the community receives.  Through government and private grants, museums are able to staff many more people than would normally be possible.  Museums inadvertently encourage art sales, which is profitable to both the art dealer and the artist himself.  Without patronage, several careers related to the arts professions simply would not be able to exist.
One of the most important reasons for the funding of the arts is the benefit it endows to the community in the form of preventive and productive measures.  As psychologists and pschosanalysts have told us for years, art develops creativity.  Creativity, in turn, is one of the most important means of advancing our civilization.  As researchers have found, arts such as drawing and painting help develop clearer thinking.  The arts also help people find means of relieving stress and depression.  Canvas, paper, or even the stage somehow find a way to contain human emotion.  As somewhat of an artist, I myself have found painting and drawing to be a means of escape and relaxation.  Color theory has also shown us the moods that the simple nature of color in our environment can have on us.  New research is also being conducted into the benefits of the arts as a vehicle to understanding human thought.
Besides from being productive, art is also therapeutic and preventive in its nature.  Continual research has been done linking the effects of early visual stimuli and the development of children's behavior patterns.  Art is also a means to diffuse some violent situations because it allows for confrontation to be made via an artistic medium instead of actual physical confrontation.  Necessarily, it's interesting to note the success of the art program which has been implemented in some prison systems.  These programs, along with the physical programs, are designed to develop the criminal into a more successful, reformed individual by allowing for alternative means of expression.
Yet, a differentiation must be made between the world of art and that of what could be considered pornography.  While hoping not to cause dissension, it is my opinion that the overall decision of what is art is linked to the artists ideas behind his or her creation.  Obviously, some works are not meant be valued as art for the extremely negative and perverse viewpoints that are being expressed.  Simply put, art is something which produces a positive, constructive analysis of aspects of human existence.
When analysing if local, state, and national government should financially support the arts over other means, it is certainly pertinent to see the importance the arts play in our lives.  Immediately, one can see that in a ever-more complex and demanding society we need alternative means of enrichment to counteract negative influences.  Summarily, our human needs may dictate that government, which should have the welfare of the population in mind, should understand the interaction and basic needs of the people.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0008.4>


Today, many women feel that abortion decisions should only be made by them and should not concern the government and the nation as a whole.  I feel that, as a woman, there should be strict rules regarding abortions.
We all know the consequences of sex, especially unprotected sex and if a person decides to play the game they should be held accountable for the results of their horseplay.  I feel that if a sensible, well-minded women consents to have sex, she is responsible for the results of her actions.  Today, there are many protective devices that can help persons prevent pregnancies.  The condom is not one hundred percent effective, but is about ninety-eight percent effective if used properly.  The birth control pill is said to ninety-five percent effective in the prevention of pregnancy.  If a condom and the birth control pill are used together, the risk of pregnancy is less than one percent.  Other types of contraceptives include foams, the female condom, a five year injected tube placed in a woman's arm which injects a hormone that helps prevent pregnancies, a shot which acts like birth control pills but only has to be taken every three months, and spermicide.  All of these methods are highly effective in pregnancy prevention.  The prevention methods named above are all highly effective but there is a method that is one hundred percent, a method that should be practiced by all single persons should practice, which is abstinence.  When using abstinence, a person does not have to worry about getting pregnant because they will not be in the game.
With all of these protective devices, a person has no excuse for wanting an abortion after consensual sex.  Personally, I do not believe one person has the right to take away another person's life, even if that person is not fully developed into what he or she will be.  Sure, it is supposed to be a woman's choice to say no I don't want this child, kill it, but that not very fair to the child.  Why can't these women just carry out the pregnancy and put the child up for adoption.  Also, some people use money as their excuse.  They say they can not afford to have a child.  The government gives aid to people that need it.  Welfare is there to help persons how are financially unable to take care of their children well enough on their own.  As a person, I feel abortion is wrong and all that have had sex with someone and not forced into it, should be put into jail for murder if they committed the murder of the innocent child.
Even though I do not totally agree with abortion, I do agree with the fact that if the woman objects or does not consent to sex, she should have the option of abortion open.  For example, is she was raped by a wild maniac and during intercourse he emits his vicious sperm into her system.  Next thing she knows, she's pregnant.  I know if I was impregnated by this fiend, who could not even wait long enough to get my consent before taking away something very important to me, I would not want anything further to do with him and every time I looked at the child he made me produce, I would always have a grudge against the child, not intentionally, but it would always be there.  It would be worse if I was a virgin at the time because he would be taking away a gift I was saving for someone else until I felt the time was right to give it away.  I would probably not want to have sex with any other people.  That event would ruin my life.  I never would have a chance to go through the process of approaching, meeting, getting to know, and finally moving into the final stage.  All of these experiences would be taken away from me like a bottle ripped from a baby's mouth and no matter how I cry it will never be given back.
Another case and point that would make me agree with an abortion is if the mother was unable to carry her child the full term without dying herself I does think the death of two people is a justified reason to prevent a woman from having an abortion.  Some people get pregnant when they are too old to have children and are unable to keep the child for a full period without running the risk of dying in pregnancy.  Yes, it was up to that person to make sure she did not get pregnant being that she was so old, but we all make mistakes and she made a terrible one.  If she was able to carry the child she should be forced but if she has a serious chance of dying, she should have the option open to her to choose abortion.
When my cousin was at the tender age of sixteen, she got pregnant.  Being that she was the daughter of a prominent member of our community, her mother decided to not let her have the baby.  Without listening to my cousin and without telling a soul she rushed my cousin to up upstate New York, where her family resides.  My aunt left my cousin up there and came home.  She told everyone that my cousin wanted to stay with her sister for a while.  After being in New York for about two weeks, she called me.  She told me that her mom pushed her off to New York to have an abortion.  I was surprised that she got pregnant but I was amazed to see that her mom shoved her off.  She made her have an abortion all because she did not want people to know that she had a daughter that made a mistake.  If my cousin did have the child, it would have caused problems because she was pregnant for a twenty-two year old married man.  I still believe she should have been forced to go through with the pregnancy.  This event took place about four years ago and now my cousin is married.  Since the abortion, she has tried to get pregnant but never succeeded.  After an examination, he family doctor told her that her ovaries had been damaged and it appeared to be the result of an abortion gone bad.  She was crushed.  To this day she blames her mother for her not being able to have children and I feel very sorry for her because she was very young and her mother made all of her decisions.  The events that took place in her life pushes me to want abortions to be regulated by elected govermnent officials.  The people need to make strict laws regarding abortion rights and who should and should not have abortions.
The arguments I have presented are all part of my true beliefs on the issue of abortion.  I hope that after reading my works others decide that the death of an innocent, defenseless, helpless child is wrong and should be prevent if at all possible.

<ICLE-US-SCU-009.4>

Abortion is a moral issue that is constantly debated.  These debates began over two decades ago, they have done nothing, but enlarge throughout the years.  The two major different views of this subject are the main reasons for such controversy.  The main question about this issue is: Should abortion be legal? This is a question that should be addressed because it deals with the lives of humans.
Some people feel that this issue does not apply to them, but almost everyone picks a side or has an opinion about the topic.  There are two categories that people place themselves in.  The two names for this categories are either pro-choiceor pro-life.  Regardless of which category they claim, its hard to determine who really obtains enough knowledge to judge the morality of the issue.  So, the decision to have an abortion or not should be left entirely up to the woman who is dealing with this situation.  According to the situation, she is the only one who knows what consequences will be taken on and how much the child will suffer.
The pro-choicers, as well as proffers, have argued various points to make their points either for or against abortion.
Although if you analyze many of these arguments they are not very substantial.  For example some anti-abortionist, think that even woman women who have abortions.  Rape is something that the woman has no control over and they should not be forced to give birth to an unwanted baby.  The anti-abortionist's neglect of these topics shows there tendencies to ignore special cases of woman who are unwillingly impregnated.  Views like this by prolifers make their whole argument seem very unrealistic about the whole issue of abortion and why it might be necessary.
Another common argument used by anti-abortionists is one known as the Slippery Nazi Slope.  According to this argument, abortion is a form of genocide.  They say that a society that accepts abortion is the same as what the Nazis did when they killed the Jews.  This may sound like a strong argument, but it also is not substantial if you look at the true meaning of ,-genocide.  The true meaning of genocide is the systematic extermination or destruction of a political, racial or cultural group.  This shows that, genocide is a massive killing or extermination of a particular racial or ethnic group, it is obvious that abortion is nothing like this . Abortion does not try to prevent any certain group from coming into the world and it certainly is not a massive killing.  Genocide has nothing to do with a woman's personal decision to have an abortion or not.  Society should not be considered Nazis just for letting a woman make her own decision.
The decision of abortion should be left entirely up to the woman.  Who is to say what a woman should do with her own body or how she should deal with her particular situation? Although abortion is a very controversial issue that is debated continuously in society, the choice is really up to the woman who is carrying the child.  If this was not true,there would be higher death rates from self-induced abortions and a larger number of unwanted children in the world.  If a child is born unwanted, he is automatically psychologically damaged for life and stays insecure unless he is treated.  After all, every child born into this world should be wanted and loved.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0010.4>

When you see pink what do you think of? Pink is mainly associated with women.  Pink is considered a feminine color.  Why? because it is a very soft color, and women are usually pictured as being soft and tender.  Men do not usually wear pink because it is stereotypically considered a feminine color.
Commercials always show this stereotype.  The Skintimate shaving gel commercial shows a woman wearing pink holding a pink razor.  The background has soft colors. on the Secret deodorant commercial, "Strong enough for a man, but PH balanced for a woman," the woman is wearing again pink clothing, and the container for the deodorant is a soft blue with pink flowers on the container.  Also commercials for feminine products, such as sanitary napkins, also have the stereotypical feminine color pink.  Always maxi pads have white, pink, and light blue colors on the package.  Again soft colors were used.
Pink is almost always worn by baby girls.  When mothers bring their baby girls from the hospital, the baby girls are usually dressed in pink.  Especially, when the babies are a few weeks old, baby girls are usually dressed in pink or other soft colors such as mint green or yellow. once a baby has developed its looks, there is no problem with the baby girl wearing blue.  A mother would not want a person to come up to her child and have to ask if it is a girl or a boy.  So if someone saw a baby wearing pink, they automatically assume that it is a girl.
Commercials also show babies with this stereotypical point of view.  The Huggies diapers commercial is a very good example of this stereotype because they have Huggies for girls and Huggies for boys. of course, the Huggies for girls are pink diapers, and the Huggies for boys diapers are blue.
Also baby products such as bottles, dishes, brushes, and combs are also stereotyped as pink for girls and blue for boys.  A specific example is the Gerber bottles and dishes.
As for males, baby boys especially, blue is the
stereotypical color.  Baby boys are associated with blue.  Just like baby girls, baby boys when brought from the hospital are usually dressed in blue.  Sometimes baby boys are dressed in yellow, but you would not catch a baby boy with pink on.
Blue is a masculine color, just as pink is a feminine color.  If someone saw a baby wearing blue they would automatically assume it was a boy.
The basic stereotypes are pink is for females, and blue is for males.  Females can wear masculine colors and get away with it, but males can not wear pink, a feminine color, and get away with it (jam referring to babies).  As children get older and grow up males are accepted wearing soft colors, such as a light pink.  Females, as they grow up, are accepted wearing masculine colors more than males.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0011.4>

Capital punishment has been in debate since early hangings, and will continue to be a subject of controversy untill our society identifies the irrationality of it's existence in our judicial system.  Currently capital punishment is being left up to the individual state as to whether or not they decide to implement it as a form of punishment.  Advocates of this obscene form of punishment offer a handful of reasons justifying it's use.  At first glance these reasons seem to hold up, but one by one I will show you that these reasons are as ridiculous as the source they are trying to endorse.  Ounce society is enlightened of these statistics, they will see that capital punishment has no place in the justice of
this country.
The first claim of supporters is that they are under the opinion that it is much more expensive to keep a convicted criminal in prison for life than to simply pull their plug.  At first glance this statement seems to be more than rational.  The problem here is that people don't realize the big picture of the situation at hand.  Instead of capital punishment saving tax payers money, it actually does the complete opposite.  Let me throw a couple of statistics at you that I gathered doing a paper last year.  Currently to administer capital punishment upon a single individ ual it costs five times the amount than it would to inprison somebody from the age of eighteen to eighty years old.  How this statement can be valid is due to the reasons that when someone recieves the death penalty they are not killed the next day.  Instead they are placed on death row, which on the average lasts a little over eighteen years.  During these eighteen years the convicted criminal goes up for continuous appeals.  These appeals are extremely expensive due to excessive court costs.  When offered these facts some try to suggest that we eliminate the appeal system.  This approach is impractical because the appeal system is a major part in the backbone of our judicial system.  So if the cost of punishment is at all a concern for you, then it is obvious that capital punishment is the wrong
direction to go.

Another reason offered by advocates is the feeling that retribution is necessary for those who commit these particular crimes.  The fault here is that they are trying to use the judicial system as a tool for revenge instead of it's intended purpose which is to deliver punishments to those violating the law.  There is a large difference between revenge and punishment.  Correct me if I'm wrong but I was under the direct impression that mankind tried the eye for an eye approach for awhile but it wasn't el,,,actly humane so we gave it up.  So why do some members of society feel that this midevil philosophy for punishment should still exist in the medium of capital punishment.  Doesn't it seem a bit hypocritical to exclaim that killing another human is wrong, so therefore for a punishment society is turning around and killing the offender for doing the exact same thing that it is supposedly create justice.  I think society should realize that this form of punishment is being applied to those for doing exactly what the punishment is doing to them, which totally contradicts the morals involved(respect for human life).  How are individuals in society supposed to respect life when the system that governs them refuses to.
The final reason that I'm going to refute is that capital punishment is a better deterent for future criminals.  They are under the false assumption that many more people would commit more murdeers with only the threat of life imprisonment, than if the death penalty was implemented.  This may seem plausible, but under close scrutiny it ends up being completely false.  They have done studies in statels where the death penalty has been employed.  They measured the murder rate before and after capital punishment went into effect.  They expected to find a large decrease in the murder rate, but instead found no change at all.  There are a couple of reason's this has no effects on the murder rate.  The main reason would be that the people committing these murders don't plan on getting caught, so they are not even contemplating the punishments of their actions.  Still another reason is that when people kill each other most of the time they aren't sitting around drawing up prols and con's for murdeer raps, so the death penalty has no effect on whether or not to commit the crime.  It seems very obvious to me that murders don't consider the form of punishment when killing another human being, so deference couldn't increase with
the death penalty in effect.
In conclusion, I feel I have given significant reasons and statistics to revoke the main arguments for the support of capital punishment.  I have shown that financially this practice is only detramental to the wallets of the tax payers.  The whole reasoning behind this punishment is full of holes which implies that justice and capital punishment can't coexist.  It has also been proven that capital punishment won't deter people from taking lives in the future.  With no reasons left to rationalize capital punishment, it seems there is no use for it in our present day.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0012.4>

This topic came to me on Friday night when "The State" called to solicit a subscription to their newspaper.  I refused to take a subscription to their paper.  Several years ago I considered myself to be an avid reader.  However lately, I feel the quality of their news has begun to go down.  I remember last year when I was- interviewed by a representative of "The State", on the patio of the Russell House.  I told them at that time that they had lost the quality of their news, and the price was just too high for what they had in their paper.
Over the passing years, I have come to know a "new media." It is no longer the media of my younger years.  Then, newspapers, radio and television were successfiil without dragging up all kinds of dirt on any and every person or event that came along.
I guess my realization of this "right to know" came when United States troops were sent into Grenada in the 1980's.  The media's "right to know' was unknowingly broadcasting troop movements to the enemy, endangering the fives of our young people.  As a parent of one of these young people, I was appalled and infuriated.  How dare they endanger lives with their "right to know".  It happened again in Desert Storm and Bosnia.  What happened to waiting for the battle to end before the cameras and lights went on? I suppose this might come under the people's 'right to know", however, I am sure they would hope that the sons and daughters they sent to fight, would at least have a small chance of surviving the first impact before someone told the enemy where they were.  Watch out, future warriors of this country.  It may be your turn to step up in front of a camera when you least expect it. 
In the early 1990's, the United States was looking for a new Surgeon General to replace Jocelyn Elders.  The media took a perfectly good candidate, who probably would have made an excellent Surgeon General, and dug up as much dirt on him as possible.  They found he had performed four abortions and despite the other good things this person may have done in his life, he was rejected on this reason.  Was this a rejection or a crucifixion?
"The Spectator" took it upon themselves recently to malign a member of the University of South Carolina English Department.  They could have had no reason but to cast themselves in the limelight, because the article was in no way newsworthy.  They had no compunction about their action and probably said, "Let's just smear him because he is different and does not conform to the mold of 'everybody else."' Perhaps, if everybody were alike, there would be no "news".  However, this country was founded on the differences in people, and that is what makes this country great.
During the 0. J. Simpson trial, the media hoopla was like a circus that had come to the nation as a whole.  The media surmised guilt or innocence, before the trial began or the first evidence was presented.  With each witness and fact, they were merciless in digging into the backgrounds of each.  It seems to me, this was the job of the prosecution and defense lawyers, not the media.  Nobody was inunune to these incessant facts, They found something on everybody, including the witnesses, the prosecution and defense lawyers, and even the dismissed jurors.  How did they know what the jurors were doing and where they were sitting in the restaurants? Were they summarizing the plots and subplots and then projecting them onto the courts? It was all to sell more newspapers and more air time.  There seemed to be very little about justice in this circus, and a lot about making money.
Perhaps the media is the reason Colin Powell will not run for President.  He would certainly be a very viable candidate, and would make a terrific President, as most military leaders have been in the past.  But, why should he have to go through ad that media hoopla, just to be President of a country that would not appreciate his qualifications anyway? 1, for one, do not blame him.  Who would want every little thing in their background brought up for public scrutiny? Just because a person has made a mistake in their past lives does not mean that they will make that mistake in the future.  The past is past.  Let it be.  Nobody is perfect.  Perhaps, we should have the same qualifications for background checks into the lives of all these media people who are so quick to point their fingers and ridicule others.
When does the media's "right to know" start to tread on a person's right to privacy? Why do they have to know and report when a person gets up in the morning, or when that person goes to bed at night? Why do they have to know and report how many hwnburgers a person eats in a day, or how far they run to work it ofv.  The bottom line is, the reason for these things is a personal preference and none of the medi&s business.  It is a wonder that we are not getting a play by play description of Reagan's Alzheimer's or Ford's golf gwne.
If this madness of the media persists, I feel the next step will be to tap people's telephones and install cameras and microphones in each home.  Then they can really tell what's going on.  To go a step further, the media's freedom of speech will be the downfall of personal liberty in this country.  I would hate to see it come to this, but ultimately, someone will have to be a responsible journalist and say I cannot report this foolishness.  Hopefully, there are a few people out there who still have integrity.  Unfortunately, I have not seen anyone lately who would put their integrity on the line in lieu of money.  I would like to say to the editors and publishers of today and to the newscasters, please get off this merry-go-round that you are on.  Put the quality of the news before the dollar signs.  Then perhaps you will have people wanting to read your papers and listen to your newscasts again.
I, for one, do not want to give up personal liberty so the media can make money off their "right to know." It's too bad that good news makes no money.  I guess that is why we dodt see any of it anymore.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0013.4>

Over the past few years there has been one question that appearred in the courts.  That questions is should women be allowed to attend the Citadel.  There has been many objections to this statement, but there are alao many firm believers behind it.
Whenever asked why shouldn't women be admitted there are two things that always come out first.  They are that it has traditionally been an all male institution and women couldn't handle it.  Yes, it has been tradition to only enroll males, but as the saying goes traditions are meant to be broken.  If traditions weren't broken you would still have black slaves, women would all be housewives and so on.  If society changes its way of living then it must change its traditions also.  As time goes on certain things fade away and other things become more important to us.  Most traditions are broken to benefit society or to create it more equal.  People would like to say or believe that we live in an equal society, but as a women I especially know that is not true.  Society has changed a lot for the better, but not everything is completely equal.  Men are just like women, some of them may be strong or intelligent but others may not be.  A woman could do a job just as well as a man or just as bad.  This brings us to the point that women could not handle the duties of attending the Citadel.  I will not say all women could because I know they couldn't, but not all men could either.  Some people say that women do not have enough physical strength.  That may be true in some cases, but others might be able to handle the challenges, Everyone does deserve the chance to try.
In our country if a school is publically funded it can't desciniinate against race, religion, gender or handicapped people.  The Citadel is pubfically funded, therefore what makes it any different.  Why should they not have to follow the same rules as other schools? If all public schools started to say you can only come here if you are hispanic or if you are poliish our schooling system would be in great chaos.  People would have to travel far away to attend the school that fit them.  This would be a lot of extra people needed to teach, drive buses, clean and cook.  This would mean more money or higher taxes.  People are already paying taxes for public education, so why shouln't it benefit everyone not just the men in our community.
The Citadel provides excellence discipline and education.  Parents who have a son and a daughter should want them both to have these things.  They should be able to receive an eqaul education.  Every deserves a good education and upbringing.  Men and women do not need different levels of one or the other.
One reason that people don't want women to attend is they say it will distract the men.  I think this is not true, because many of the country's higher education institutions are coed.  There is not a problem with it there.  Men and women attend classes together and socialize together, but the two don't interfere.  Sure, there may a few cases where that may happen, but that could happen anywhere.  Men and women will not be and are not separated at the work place.  Why should students at school be separated if they must deal with learening to work together with the opposite sex at the work place and everywhere else in life.  By having the men separate you are teaching them that women are less superior.  This kind of attitude could cause problems with other things later on in their life.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0014.4>

The debate over whether or not Marijuana should be legalized has been around since the sixties, and people today are realizing that it is certainly an issue that will not go away.  It seems that nowadays the use of Marijuana is extremely widespread, even the president admits to smoking it.  Recently many politicians have discussed the prospect of legalizing Marijuana.  But it seems until they have overwhelming public support, there will be no major change in the laws regarding Marijuana.  The purpose of this passage is not to convince you to legalize marijuana or to more strictly enforce Marijuana laws.  Rather, it's purpose is to inform you on all the facts about Marijuana.  It is every American's right to make their own decision regarding govermnent policies, but unfortunately most people make their choices based on ignorance, or preconceptions.  There is nothing wrong with choosing to make Marijuana illegal, as long as you have justifiable reasons for doing so.
The first thing to look at when deciding about a stance on Marijuana, the history of Marijuana in the United States.  Marijuana was made federally illegal in 1937.  In 1980 the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) began prescribing THC pills, (THC is the active ingredient in Marijuana, the one that produces the "higW'), to control nausea in cancer patients.  The FDA has also recently prescribed Marijuana cigarettes to suffers of glaucoma, in order to increase appetite.  In 1988, the DEA's (Drug Enforcement Agency) concluded that "marijuana is one of the safest, therapeutically active substance known to man." More than 400,000 people (in the US), are arrested each year on marijuana charges.
The next step in formulating an opinion, is to examine the physical effects it has on the body.  Some short term effects of smoking Marijuana include, the "high", and increased heart rate, and some loss of coordination.  Long term effects are similar to those of cigarettes, mouth, throat, lung cancer, and bronchitis.  Also, those who are chronic smokers, (more than once a day), show signs of short term memory loss after smoking.
After the physical effects are realized we must look at exactly what Marijuana does to the mind.  "There are no obvious personality defects among those who use the drug on occasion", according to Pgychology and You, by McMahon and Romano.  Most agree, however that prolonged usage could lead to some memory loss.
Without encouraging the use of Marijuana, any doctor will inform you that Alcohol has proven time and time again to be more detrimental to the mind and body than Marijuana.  More than 150,000 Americans die of alcohol abuse each year, more than 400,000 die from diseases reacted to smoking cigarettes.  But ever since it has been cultivated in China, back in 4000 BC, NO ONE has ever died from marijuana.
People often ask themselves, "Even if we know it is not as bad as alcohol, why should we legalize it, what is to be gained?" First look at the rising amount of crime involving marijuana.  Many people are killed every day because of drug transactions.  Also, most of what people smoke nowadays is not just pure Marijuana, it is often laced with crack or PCP.  By legalizing Marijuana the United States government could elevate much of the crime in America, while at the same time regulate the consumption, thus making it much safer, and thus bring in billions of dollars in tax revenue.  A harder question to answer would be, "What does the goverwnent have to lose." None other than the Department of Agriculture admits that "the eanount of paper yielded from one acre of hemp plants is triple that of regular trees."
Ideals regarding the usage of Marijuana began changing in the sixties, (look at what generation is office now).  It seems that with increasing education, and public support it is only a matter of time before it is legalized.  Compare the situation we are in now to the prohibition of alcohol in the 1920's, and ask yourself, how different is it? You will most likely find that it is a very similar situation.  So when deciding a stance on the legalization of Marijuana, ask yourself what is to be lost and what is to be gained, and you will see there can only be one logical answer.

<R>

<ICLE-US-SCU-0015.4>

Who is provided with the authority and/or responsibility to prohibit the reading and studying of certain text? Is it the school boards of education, the parents within the various school districts or censorship groups such as the Citizens for Excellence in Education (CEE).  Who has given these persons the power to ban books--the voices of authors? As I last recalled the Constitution of the United States provided all people with the fireedom of speech.
However,' since Johannes Gutenburg's printing press in 1455 and Pope Leo X condemnation of Martin Luther's Ninety-Five Thesis, materials have been censored in what one sees as danger or threat to society.  Now in more recent times, instead of groups prohibiting the reading of so-called "inappropriate text") ,the go as far as to bum them.  Did you know that in the year 1991-92, the People of the American Way (PAW) reported in their journal, Attacks on the Freedom ofspeech that 376 attacks were made on the freedom to learn; 348 demands were made for the removal of certain texts from school curriculwn and public libraries; and 44 of the 50 states took part in such discrimination and censorship.
The censorship of literary works range from magazine articles to children's stories to lengthy novels.  In New Hampshire,, the magazine, Ms. , was considered to be inappropriate for the reading of high students.  Nashua's Board of Education felt that speaking openingly about vibrators, contraceptives, materials on lesbianism and witchcraft was not acceptable.  In the court case,, Salvail v. Nashua Board ofeducation, the board was unable to provided the court with a legitimate reason for its removal; therefore, the magazine returned to the shelves of the school library.
Unfortunately, in the Arapahoe School District, the School Board was allowed to ban five books without reason.  Though this fact was presented in a the case of Cary v. Board of Education, and it was clearly stated that the teachers First Amendment rights were violated, nothing could be done.  The First Amendment gave those teachers the right to choose their text books but their rights were waived under an previous agreement with the school district.
As if it were not enough that the teaching curriculum and student's education is immensely limited because of constant attempt of groups such as CEE, Blackstone Society, and Rutherford Institute, many public libraries are feeling the strain.  The Director of Mesa's Public Library in Arizona ordered a copy of Madonna's Sex and this started an uproar.  Several letters of complaint were sent to the library and to the mayor, himself.  Though Madonna's novel was not considered to be a baimed text at this time, several people in Arizona did not want to even give it a chance.
In conclusion, I feel that the School of Boards of Education, many parents, and ministers try to stop the world for turning.  They think that because they prohibited a book from being read or burning it to ashes will stop of the violence and sinning of the world today.  Unfortunately, they have yet to realize that if the children do not read it, they will see it.  Watching cartoons, <?>, a soap opera or even taking a causal walk to the park can be an eye-opener.  Sex, violence, and profanity fills the streets of this world.  Putting a restrain of the voices of authors such as Mark Twain, J.D. Salinger, John, Steinbeck, Judy Blume, and Maya Angelou deprives the American Society of what beauty there can be in words.  These persons write with such a powerful emotion that it would be a dishonesty to prohibit their works.  Maya Angelous, I know Why The Caged Bird Sings, is the story about her life.  What right do we, as American people have to say, she should not have said it that way.  Only she knows what happens and therefore, I feel she is the only one who can express it.
I commend the group PAW, and those teachers and librarians who fought for these authors rights.  Though I agree with Kurt Vonnegut when he stated that his job was to teach, not to defend the First Amendment, I feel that it was quite remarkable on the parts of these educators to go against all odds in order to provide their students with the best education.  Besides, it was always said that the more we know, the more we grow.




<ICLE-US-SCU-0016.4>

In the 1990's, the trend s cems to be moving toward less govermnent and finding ways to save taxpayers dollars.  Many social programs are being cut.  It seems to me that the politicians should look at the judicial system as a place where some changes could cut costs.  In particular, I wn t~g about the court of common pleas or civil court.  This is the judicial forum where lawsuits are heard.  Are all of these lawsuits necessary? Seems like everybody is suing everybody these days.  Lawsuits seem to have become a way for a lot of people to make a living.  How many lawyers do you see advertising now a days? They want to represent you if you are hurt on the job, or if you slip and fiLI1, and especially if you are involved in an automobile accident.  It costs millions of tax dollars to support the system of litigation for all these lawsuits.  Courthouses have to be built, judges and hundreds of administrative employees have to be paid.  Jurors have to be paid, not to mention the wnount of time wasted by jurors to hear these ridiculous cases.  Hundreds of lawsuits are filed by ft~tes in the prison system.  They have time on their hands and law libraries at their disposal.  Inmates file suits for just about everything you can imagine.  For example, ft~tes have filed suit because they do not like the flavor of ice cream they are being served. bmtes have sued because they are not allowed to wear their hair the way they want to, and I heard of a case last week in which a male inmate sued the state because he was not allowed to wear female underwear during his incarceration.  It costs thousands of taxpayers dollars to pay lawyers to represent the state against these frivolous lawsuits.
There have been several rings of accident stagers arrested recently.  These people fake accidents in order to sue and collect money from insurance companies with the corporation of lawyers, chiropractors, and sometimes medical doctors.  It cost you and I millions in insurance cost to payoff these fake claims.  It seems as though accidents have become something to make a profit off of.  People are encouraged by the large number of lawyers on television, radio, and billboards begging for people to call them if they happen to hurt their back. lie insurance companies encourage the lawyers by paying ofF these ridiculous claims without any argument or investigation.  The insurance companies often take the position that it is cheaper to payoff a claim then to challenge it in court, even though it is suspect.
Frivolous worker's compensation claims lead to lower wages for workers because employers have to pay higher workers compensation insurance premiums.  Medical costs are affected because doctors have to pay higher malpractice insurance premiums.  Hundreds of lawsuits are filed against law enforcement officers for so called rights violations or excessive force allegations.  Students in the public schools are not properly disciplined because teachers and principals are afraid of being sued.
Our lawmakers have done little to solve this problem. ne Hundreds of ffivolous lawsuits filed bog down the system and make it impossible for the legitimate cases to be heard in a timely manner.  It now takes from three to five years for a civil case to be tried.  This means that people who are in need of real civil relief have to wait.  The backlog of cases in the civil courts also helps bog down the criminal courts.  If there were fewer civil cases to be dealt with, it would free up courts to deal with more criminal cases, reducing the backlog of criminal cases, which would bring the criminal cases to trial quicker.  This would result in fewer criminals out on bond, as well as fewer inmates in county jails awaiting trial.  Bringing the criminal cases to trial quicker would reduce overcrowding in local jails.
Our lawmakers must enact legislation to deal with the unnecessary lawsuits.  Judges must be given the power to quickly dismiss cases that they deem frivolous.  Judges must also be mandated to waste no time with these cases.  Once a lawsuit is deemed unfounded, the person filing the suit should be required to pay all court costs.  Inmates in prison should not be allowed to file ridiculous lawsuits; their time should be otherwise occupied.  Insurance companies should do a better job of investigating claims.  Lawyers, chiropractors, and medical doctors found to be involved in scams to bilk insurance money should be prosecuted and have their licenses revoked.

<ICLE-US-SCU-0017.4>

Abortion is a controversial topic in todays society.  Almost everyone has an opinion on the subject.  Many people believe it should be illegal.  Many others believe the government should not interfere; it should remain the choice of the individual.  Hapeo povertyg personal choice and illegal abortions are examples why people should maintain their right to decide.  Abortion is the right of the people and it should remain so.
One in four women experience rape or attempted rape in their life time.  Imagine being forced to carry the child of a man who assaulted you and then being force to give birth to this child.  Would be able to love him or her? This traumatic event takes months or years to recover from.  Without the right to an abortion many of these women would require more time to recover and more counseling that they would already be receiving.
Most unwanted pregnancies occur in poverty stricken areas of society.  Generally children born into impoverished environments remain in that socioeconomic level their entire life.
Lower income families also tend to have five children on average while middle and upper income families tend to have only two children.  By offering abortion to the lower income people you are helping to maintain a balance of the number of- lower income families and middle and upper income families. 
Women deserve the right to have an abortion. they won this right in the case of Rowe versus Way.  This was a landmark victory for pro-choice women across America.  Without this case women would probably not be able to make the choice today.
No one should be able to decide whether or not another person should be allowed to have an abortion.  This includes religious people and the government itself, because if the remove this right who is to say they will not try to remove other rights eventually.
If abortion were to be outlawed again would this end the practice'? No many women would continue to seek abortions whether it be by some unsanitary underground "clinic" or on their own with some primitive tool like a coat hanger or similar device.  Abortion would still be rampant but now it would have a much higher mortality rate and it would be more expensive.
Without abortions where would all the unwanted children go? The basic plan would be to put them in adoption homes, but this would cost tax payers huge sums of money to support.  The average cost to support a child is one hundred twenty-five thousand dollars for eightteen years.  Infant mortality rates would sky racket alsop because there would be a higher rate of ignorant and uncaring parents.

